#Module 7: Storing Tabular
Data in Azure



#Lab: Storing Event Registration Data in Azure Storage Tables


###Scenario



Even though event registrations could be stored in SQL, you have a 
unique need. Each event requires a different registration form that can
be changed at any time. Essentially, registrations could be of any
 schema. A relational database such as SQL requires a well-defined
schema. Because of your business requirement, you require a database 
that can store items with flexible structures (or schemas). To 
facilitate this you have elected to use Azure Table Storage for your
event registrations.



###Objectives



After you complete this lab, you will be able to:



>  Use the Azure Store SDK to create a Table storage client.

>
  Use the Azure Store SDK to create a table.

>
  Use the Azure Store SDK to add entities to a table.

>  Use the Azure Store SDK to query entities.

>  Use Server Explorer in Visual Studio 2013 to view Table storage
 entities.



###Lab Setup



Estimated Time: 45 minutes



For this lab, you will use the available host machine. 
Before you begin
 this lab, you must complete the lab in Module 2. Also, you must complete 
the following steps:


1.  On the host computer, click **Start**, type **Remote**, and then
 click **Remote Desktop Connection**.


2.  In Remote Desktop Connection, provide the name of your virtual
    machine in the **Computer** box by using this format:

    

**vm20532[Your Name Here].cloudapp.net:[Your VM RDP Port]**



>  **Note:** The name and port for your virtual
 machine might be saved in the Computer drop-down list. If this is the
 case, use this value instead of typing it in manually. If you are
 unsure about your virtual machine’s RDP port, use either of the Azure
 portals to find your virtual machine’s endpoints. The endpoint with
 the name **Remote Desktop** is the correct port for RDP. This port is
 randomized to protect your virtual machine from unauthorized
 access.** **



1.  In Remote Desktop Connection, click **Connect**. Wait until the RDP client accesses the virtual machine.


2.  If necessary, sign in by using the following credentials:



>  User name: **Student**

>
  Password: **AzurePa\$\$w0rd**



1.  Verify that you received credentials to sign in to the Azure portal from you training provider. You will use these credentials and the Azure account throughout the labs in this course.



##Exercise 1:	Populating the Sign-In Form with Registrant Names



###Scenario

In this exercise, you will:



>  Query table entities by using a **CloudTableClient** instance.

>
  Use LINQ-to-Objects on a set of entities.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:



1.	Create an instance of the CloudTable class.


2.	Retrieve strongly-typed registration records by partition key.


3.	Use LINQ-to-Objects to project a list of registrant names.



####Task 1:	Create an instance of the CloudTable class



1.  Open the **Contoso.Events** solution from the following location:

    

-   File location: **Allfiles
 (F):\\Mod07\\Labfiles\\Starter\\Tables\\Contoso.Events**



In the **Contoso.Events.Worker** project, open the
**TableStorageHelper.cs** file.

From the **GetRegistrantNames** method, remove the existing code.

Using the **\_tableClient** variable, create a new **CloudTable**
instance by using the **GetTableReference** method with the following
parameters:



-   tableName: **EventRegistrations**



####Task 2:	Retrieve strongly-typed registration records by partition key

1.  By using the following code, create a **string** filter that finds entities with a partition key equivalent to the **eventKey**
 provided by the **GetRegistrantsNames** method’s parameters.

string partitionKey = eventKey;

string filter = TableQuery.GenerateFilterCondition("PartitionKey",
QueryComparisons.Equal, partitionKey);

Create a **TableQuery** with the filter and run the query by using the
**ExecuteQuery** method of the *table* variable as shown in the
following code:

TableQuery\<Registration\> query = new
TableQuery\<Registration\>().Where(filter);

IEnumerable\<Registration\> registrations =
table.ExecuteQuery\<Registration\>(query);



####Task 3:	Use LINQ-to-Objects to project a list of registrant names

1.  Create a LINQ query that takes the registrations, orders them by **LastName**, then orders them by **FirstName**, and then projects them into a string of the format **“{LastName}, {FirstName}”** by
 using the following code:

IEnumerable\<string\> names = registrations

.OrderBy(r =\> r.LastName)

.ThenBy(r =\> r.FirstName)

.Select(r =\> String.Format("{1}, {0}", r.FirstName, r.LastName));



>  **Note:** You can alternatively use the query
> syntax for LINQ-to-Objects, as shown below:


>
  IEnumerable\<string\> names = from r in registrations

>
  orderby r.LastName, r.FirstName

>  select r.FirstName + ", " + r.LastName; 



Return the LINQ query as the result of the **GetRegistrantsNames**
method.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have queried
entities by row key or partition key from Table storage.



##Exercise 2:	Updating the Events Website to use Storage Tables



###Scenario



In this exercise, you will:


>  Update the existing Contoso.Events application to use Table storage.



The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:



1.	Update the register controller action to store the registration
record.


2.	Update the register ViewModel to retrieve the dynamic stub
registration from the table.



####Task 1:	Update the register controller action to store the registration record



1.  In the **Contoso.Events.Web** project, open the **RegisterController.cs** file.

Remove the existing code from the **StoreRegistration** method.

Create a **CloudStorageAccount** variable by using the **Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString** stored in the Cloud
configuration files as shown in the following code:

string connectionString =
CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting ("Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString");

var storageAccount =Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.CloudStorageAccount.Parse(connectionString);



Create a *CloudTable* variable by using the storage account and a
Storage table named **EventRegistrations** as shown in the following
code:

var tableClient = storageAccount.CreateCloudTableClient();

var table = tableClient.GetTableReference("EventRegistrations");



Create and run a **TableOperation** to insert the dynamic registration
object into the Storage table by using the following code:

var operation = TableOperation.Insert(registration);

table.Execute(operation);



Parse the **RowKey** of the registration as a **System.Guid** and return
the value as the result of the **StoreRegistration** method by using the
following code:

Guid rowKey = Guid.Parse(registration.RowKey);

Return rowKey;



####Task 2:	Update the register ViewModel to retrieve the dynamic stub registration from the table

1.  In the **Contoso.Events.ViewModels** project, open the
 **RegisterViewModel.cs** file.

Locate the **RegisterViewModel** constructor that has a single
**string** parameter.

Create a *CloudStorageAccount* variable by using the
**Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString** stored in the Cloud
configuration files as shown in the following code:

string connectionString =
CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString");

var storageAccount = Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.CloudStorageAccount.Parse(connectionString);



Create a *CloudTable* variable by using the storage account, and a
Storage table named **EventRegistrations** as shown in the following
code:

var tableClient = storageAccount.CreateCloudTableClient();

var table = tableClient.GetTableReference("EventRegistrations");



Create a **string** filter that finds entities with a **PartitionKey**
equivalent to the **eventKey** provided by the **GetRegistrantsNames**
method’s parameters as shown in the following code:

string partitionKey = String.Format("Stub\_{0}", this.Event.EventKey);

string filter = TableQuery.GenerateFilterCondition("PartitionKey",
QueryComparisons.Equal, partitionKey);



Create a **TableQuery** with the filter and run the query by using the
**ExecuteQuery** method of the *table* variable, as shown in the
following code:

TableQuery query = new TableQuery().Where(filter);



IEnumerable\<DynamicTableEntity\> tableEntities =
table.ExecuteQuery(query);

Because the query returns only a single entity, use the
**SingleOrDefault** extension method to get the *DynamicTableEntity*
variable, and then pass that variable into the
**DynamicEntity.GenerateDynamicItem** static method. Set the
**RegisterViewModel**’s **RegistrationStub** property to the result of
the method call by using the following code:

DynamicTableEntity tableEntity = tableEntities.SingleOrDefault();

this.RegistrationStub = DynamicEntity.GenerateDynamicItem(tableEntity);



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used the
Azure Storage SDK to retrieve and create entities.



##Exercise 3:	Verifying that the Events Website is Using Azure Storage Tables for Registrations



###Scenario



In this exercise, you will:


>  Use the Azure Storage Emulator to test storage entities in
 development.


>  Use Visual Studio to debug an application that uses development
 storage.



The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:



1.	Run the data generation console project to populate the Azure storage
 table with data.


2.	Use Server Explorer in Visual Studio 2013 to view table storage
registrations.


3.	Debug the cloud web project to register for the event.


4.	Use Server Explorer in Visual Studio 2013 to view the new table
storage registration.



####Task 1:	Run the data generation console project to populate the Azure storage table with data



1.  Locate the **Contoso.Events.Data.Generation** project.



Debug the **Contoso.Events.Data.Generation** project.



####Task 2:	Use Server Explorer in Visual Studio 2013 to view table storage registrations



1.  In the **Server Explorer** pane, open the **Azure** node.


2.  In the **Development** Azure Storage Account, open the
 **EventRegistrations** table.


3.  Explore the table entities that are auto generated by the console
 project.



####Task 3:	Debug the cloud web project to register for the event



1.  Debug the **Contoso.Events.Cloud** cloud project.


2.  Register for an event by using the website.



####Task 4:	Use Server Explorer in Visual Studio 2013 to view the new table storage registration



1.  Switch to the **Contoso.Events – Microsoft Visual Studio** window



Open the **Azure** node of the **Server Explorer** pane.


Open the **EventRegistrations** table in the **Development** Azure
Storage Account.


Locate your recently created **Registration** entity.


Close the **Internet Explorer** and **Contoso.Events – Microsoft Visual
Studio** applications.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used Visual
 Studio and the Azure emulators to create a comprehensive development
environment for Azure Storage.



©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this
 document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use
 this document for your internal, reference purposes. 



This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in
this  document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may
change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are 
for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is 
intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here. 
