#Module 1: Overview of the Microsoft Azure Platform

#Lab: Exploring the Azure Preview Portal

###Exercise 1: Signing in to the Preview Portal

####Task 1: Sign in to the Preview Portal

1.	On the Start screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.

2.	Go to (https://portal.azure.com).

3.	Enter the email address of your Microsoft account.

4.	Click Continue.

5.	Enter the password for your Microsoft account/

6.	Click **Sign In**.

7.	In the dialog box that displays, click **Get Started**.

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have signed in to the Preview Portal directly without having to go through the Management Portal first.

###Exercise 2: Customizing the Preview Portal

####Task 1: Customize the Startboard

1.	After the dashboard is fully loaded, right-click the **Startboard** (home screen), and then click **Customize**.

2.	Click the top Service health tile and click the gray button with three ellipses “…”.

3.	Select the **Normal** option.

4.	Right-click the **Startboard** (home screen), and then click **Done customizing**.

####Task 2: View a blade

1.	On the left side of the screen, click **Browse**.

2.	At the bottom of the **Browse** panel that displays, click **Portal settings**.

3.	Observe the **Portal settings** blade that displays.

####Task 3: Begin a journey

1.	At the top-left corner of the screen, click **New**.

2.	In the **New** panel that displays, select any category and then click **Azure Marketplace**.

3.	In the **Marketplace** blade that displays, click **Web Apps**.

4.	In the **Web Apps** blade that displays, locate the **Starter web apps** group, and then click the **Boilerplate** option.

5.	In the **Boilerplate** blade that displays, click **Create**.

6.	In the next **Boilerplate** blade that displays, provide a name for your new **App Service Plan**.

  > If a textbox is not available, simply click the **create new** option in the **App Service Plan** dialog.

7. Scroll to the left, and click the close (**X**) button on the first **Boilerplate** blade to close the journey.

8.	In the **Message from webpage** Internet Explorer dialog box, click **OK**.

> **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have viewed blades, journeys, and journey parts.

©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.  
This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.  
