Module 13: Maintaining and Monitoring Web Solutions in Azure

Lab: Deploying the Events Web Application to Azure

### Exercise 1: Creating the Target Azure Service for Deployment

####   Task 1: Sign in to the Azure Preview Portal {#task-1-sign-in-to-the-azure-preview-portal .ProcedureHeading}

On the Start screen, click the
**Internet Explorer** tile.

Go to
<https://portal.azure.com>

In the email address box, type
the email address of your Microsoft account. Click **Continue**.

In the password box, type the
password for your Microsoft account.

Click **Sign In**.

####   Task 2: Create a SQL Database instance {#task-2-create-a-sql-database-instance .ProcedureHeading}

1.  In the navigation pane on
    the left side, scroll down and click **Browse**.

In the **Browse** blade that
displays, click **SQL databases**.

In the bottom-left corner of
the portal, click **New**.

In the **New** blade that
displays, click **SQL Database**.

In the **SQL database** blade
that displays, perform the following steps:

In the **Name** box, type
**dp20532[*Your Name Here*]**.

Click **Server**.

In the **Server** blade that
displays, click **Create a new server**.

In the **New Server** blade
that displays, locate the **Server Name** box.

In the **Server Name** box,
type **sp20532[*Your Name Here*]**.

In the **Server Admin Login**
box, type **testuser**.

In the **Password** box, type
**TestPa\$\$w0rd**.

In the **Confirm Password**
box, type **TestPa\$\$w0rd**.

Click **Location**.

In the **Location** blade that
displays, select the region that is closest to your location.

In the **New server** blade,
click **OK**

In the **SQL database** blade,
click **Pricing Tier**.

In the **Recommended pricing
tiers** blade that displays, select **Basic**.

To close the blade, click
**Select**.

Click **Select Source**.

Select the **Blank Database**
option.

Ensure that the **Add to
Startboard** option is selected.

In the **SQL database** blade,
click **Create** to create the SQL database and server.

>
> **Note:** After your SQL Database instance is created, a tile will
> appear on your Startboard (home screen) that you can use to access the
> blade for your database.** **

On the Startboard, click the
tile that is created for the new SQL database.

In the **dp20532[*Your Name
Here*]** blade that displays, click the **Properties** tile.

In the **Properties** blade
that displays, click **Show database connection strings**.

In the **Database connection
strings** blade that displays, locate the **ADO.NET** box.

Copy the connection string.

On the Start screen, type
**Notepad**.

Click the **Notepad** tile.

Paste the connection string in
Notepad.

In Notepad, replace the text
**{Your\_password\_here}** with the text **TestPa\$\$w0rd**.

Switch to the **Microsoft
Azure - Internet Explorer** window.

Close the **dp20532[*Your Name
Here*]** blade by clicking the close (x) button at the top of the blade.

####   Task 3: Create a Storage instance {#task-3-create-a-storage-instance .ProcedureHeading}

1.  In the navigation pane on
    the left side, scroll down and click **Browse**.

In the **Browse** blade that
displays, click **Storage**.

In the **Storage** blade that
displays, view the list of **Storage** instances.

At the bottom-left corner of
the screen, click **New**.

In the **New** blade that
displays, click the **Everything** link.

In the **Marketplace** blade
that displays, click the **Storage, cache + backup** option.

In the **Storage, cache +
backup** blade that displays, located the **Storage and Cache** section
and click the **Storage** tile.

In the **Storage** blade that
displays, click the **Create** button.

In the **Storage account**
blade that displays, perform the following steps:

a.  In the Storage box, type
    sp20532[*Your Name Here*].

Click Location.

In the **Location** blade,
select the region closest to your current location.

Click Pricing Tier.

In the **Recommended Pricing
Tiers** blade, select **L LRS** for local redundancy.

Click **Select**.

Click **Create**.

>  **Note:** After your Storage instance is
> created, a tile will appear on your Startboard (home screen) that you
> can use to access the blade for your Storage instance.

On the Startboard, click the
tile that is created for the new Storage instance.

In the **sp20532[*Your Name
Here*]** blade that displays, click the **Settings** tile and then click
the **Properties** tile.

Record the name of your
storage instance into Notepad.

Close the **Properties** blade
by clicking the close (x) button at the top of the blade.

In the **sp20532[*Your Name
Here*]** blade, click the **Keys** tile.

In the **Manage keys** blade
that displays, copy the **Primary Connection String**.

Paste the Primary Connection
String in Notepad.

Copy the Primary Access Key.

Paste the **Primary Access
Key** in Notepad**.**

Switch to the Microsoft
Azure - Internet Explorer window.

Close the **sp20532[*Your Name
Here*]** blade by clicking the close (x) button at the top of the blade.

####   Task 4: Switch to the Azure Management Portal {#task-4-switch-to-the-azure-management-portal .ProcedureHeading}

1.  On the Startboard (home
    screen), click the **Azure Portal** tile.

Switch to the **Windows
Azure** tab.

####   Task 5: Create a Service Bus namespace {#task-5-create-a-service-bus-namespace .ProcedureHeading}

1.  In the navigation pane on
    the left side, scroll down and click **Service Bus**.

At the bottom of the screen,
click **Create**.

In the **Create a Namespace**
dialog box, perform the following steps:

a.  In the **Namespace**
    **Name** box, type **sp20532[*Your Name*]**.

In the **Region** list, select
the region that is closest to your location.

Click the check mark button to
create your namespace.

>
> **Note:** After your namespace is created, an item will appear in the
> list of **Service Bus** namespaces.** **

Click the name of the newly
created Service Bus namespace.

At the bottom of the page,
click **Connection Information**.

Locate the **SAS** section and
then the value of the **RootManageSharedAccessKey Connection String**.

Copy the connection string,
and then paste the connection string in Notepad.

Switch to the **Windows
Azure - Internet Explorer** window.

Close the **Access Connection
Information** dialog box by clicking the check mark button in the
Management Portal.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have created
services that will be used for your deployed web application.

### Exercise 2: Managing Configuration Settings for a Cloud Web Application

####   Task 1: Modify the cloud configuration settings {#task-1-modify-the-cloud-configuration-settings .ProcedureHeading}

>  **Note:** If you have not previously saved your
> Microsoft account credentials, you may be required to sign in at any
> point during this lab.

1.  On the Start screen, click
    **Desktop**.

On the taskbar, click the
**File Explorer** icon.

In the Libraries window, go to
**Allfiles (F):\\Mod13\\Labfiles\\Starter\\Contoso.Events**, and then
double-click **Contoso.Events.sln**.

In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Cloud** project, expand the **Roles**
folder, and then double-click the **Contoso.Events.Worker** role.

On the left hand side of the
screen, click the **Settings** tab.

At the top of the page, ensure
that the **Service Configuration** list is set to the **All
Configurations** value.

Find the setting with the name
**Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString**.

Ensure that the setting has
the type **String**.

In the **Value** box, type the
**SAS** **Connection** **String** that is recorded in the previous task.

Locate the **Service
Configuration** list at the top of the page.

Select the value **Cloud**.

Locate the setting with the
name **Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString**.

In the **Value** box, click
the button on the right side with an ellipsis (…).

In the **Create Storage
Connection String** dialog box, perform the following steps:

a.  Click **Manually entered
    credentials**.

In the **Account name** box,
type the **Storage Account Name** value that is recorded in the previous
task.

In the **Account key** box,
type the **Primary Access Key** value that is recorded in the previous
task.

Leave the **Connection** option
to the default setting: **Use HTTPS (Recommended)**.

Click **OK**.

Locate the **Service
Configuration** list at the top of the page.

Select the value **Local**.

Verify that the storage setting
has the value **UseDevelopmentStorage=true**.

In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Cloud** project, expand the **Roles**
folder, and then double-click the **Contoso.Events.Web** role.

On the left side of the screen,
click the **Settings** tab.

Locate the **Service
Configuration** list at the top of the page.

Select the value **Cloud**.

Locate the setting with the
name **Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString**.

In the **Value** box, click the
button on the right side with an ellipsis (…).

In the **Create Storage
Connection String** dialog box, perform the following steps:

a.  Click **Manually entered
    credentials**.

In the **Account name** box,
type the **Storage Account Name** value that is recorded in the previous
task.

In the **Account key** box,
type the **Primary Access Key** value that is recorded in the previous
task.

Leave the **Connection** option
to the default setting: **Use HTTPS (Recommended)**.

Click **OK**.

Locate the **Service
Configuration** list at the top of the page.

Select the value **Local**.

Verify that the storage setting
has the value **UseDevelopmentStorage=true**.

####   Task 2: Modify the Web.config transformation file for the administration project {#task-2-modify-the-web.config-transformation-file-for-the-administration-project .ProcedureHeading}

1.  In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, expand the **Administration** solution folder,
    expand the **Contoso.Events.Management** project, expand the
    **Web.config** files, and then double-click the **Web.Debug.config**
    file.

Locate the **appSettings** XML
element.

Locate the **add** child XML
element with a **key** attribute of
**Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString**.

Update the **value** attribute
of the element to the **Primary Connection String** that was recorded
from the **Storage** account.

Locate the **appSettings** XML
element.

Locate the **add** child XML
element with a **key** attribute of
**Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString**.

Update the **value** attribute
of the element to the **SAS** **Connection String** recorded from the
Service Bus namespace.

Locate the
**connectionStrings** XML element.

Locate the **add** child XML
element with a **name** attribute of **EventsContextConnectionString**.

Update the **connectionString**
attribute of the element to the **ADO.NET** **Connection String** that
was recorded from the **SQL** **Database** instance.

####   Task 3: Modify the app.config file for the worker role project {#task-3-modify-the-app.config-file-for-the-worker-role-project .ProcedureHeading}

1.  In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, expand the **Roles** solution folder, expand the
    **Contoso.Events.Worker** project, and then double-click the
    **app.config** file.

Locate the
**connectionStrings** XML element.

Locate the **add** child XML
element with a **name** attribute of **EventsContextConnectionString**.

Update the **connectionString**
attribute of the element to the **ADO.NET** **Connection String** that
was recorded from the **SQL Database** instance.

####   Task 4: Modify the Web.config transformation file for the web role project {#task-4-modify-the-web.config-transformation-file-for-the-web-role-project .ProcedureHeading}

1.  In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, expand the **Roles** solution folder, expand the
    **Contoso.Events.Web** project, expand the **Web.config** file, and
    then double-click the **Web.Release.config** file.

Locate the
**connectionStrings** XML element.

Locate the **add** child XML
element with a **name** attribute of **EventsContextConnectionString**.

Update the **connectionString**
attribute of the element to the **ADO.NET** **Connection String** that
was recorded from the **SQL Database** instance.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have made changes
to your web applications so that they use different settings and
connection strings after they are deployed to the cloud.

### Exercise 3: Deploying the Web Applications to Azure

####   Task 1: Deploy the Cloud Service project to a Cloud Service production environment {#task-1-deploy-the-cloud-service-project-to-a-cloud-service-production-environment .ProcedureHeading}

1.  In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Cloud** project,
    and then click **Publish**.

On the **Sign in** page of the
wizard, select your subscription.

Click **Next** to go to the
**Settings** page of the wizard.

Locate the **Cloud Service**
list, and then select the **Create New** value.

>
> **Note:** If you do not have any existing Cloud Services in your
> subscription, you will automatically see the **Created Cloud Service**
> **and Storage Account** dialog without being required to select the
> **Create New** value in the **Cloud Service** list. You can continue
> to Step 5 after you see this dialog.** **

In the **Create Cloud Service**
dialog, perform the following steps:

a.  In the **Name** box, type
    **cs20532[*Your Name*]**.

In the **Region or Affinity
Group** box, select the region that is closest to your location.

Click **Create**.

In the **Environment** list,
select the **Production** value.

In the **Build configuration**
list, select the **Release** value.

In the **Service
configuration** list, select the **Cloud** value.

Leave the default values in the
remaining fields.

Click **Publish**.

####   Task 2: Deploy the ASP.NET Web Application project to a Website instance {#task-2-deploy-the-asp.net-web-application-project-to-a-website-instance .ProcedureHeading}

1.  On the **View** menu, click
    **Server Explorer**.

Locate the **Azure** node and
click the arrow that is on the left side.

Right-click the **Websites**
node under the **Azure** node, and then click **“Create New Site”**.

In the **Site name** box, type
a unique name for your Website by using this format: **ws20532[*Your
Name*]**.

In the **Region** list, select
the region that is closest to your location.

In the **Database server**
list, ensure that the **No database** value is selected.

Click **Create**.

In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Administration** solution folder, right-click the
**Contoso.Events.Management** project and then click **Publish**.

On the **Profile** page of the
wizard, select **Microsoft Azure Websites** as the publish target.

In the **Select Existing
Website** dialog box, perform the following steps:

a.  Select your new Website
    with the prefix **ws20532** from the **Existing Websites** list.

Click **OK**.

You will be prompted with a
dialog box to save changes to your current publish profile. Click
**Yes** to save.

On the **Connection** page of
the wizard, click **Next** to go to the **Settings** page of the wizard.

On the **Settings** page of the
wizard, change the **Configuration** list’s value to **Debug – Any
CPU**.

Click **Publish**.

After the publish process is
complete, verify that Internet Explorer starts and displays the new
Website.

####   Task 3: Verify that the application was successfully published {#task-3-verify-that-the-application-was-successfully-published .ProcedureHeading}

1.  In Internet Explorer, view
    the **Contoso Events Administration** home page, and then click **Go
    to Events List**.

Verify that there are events
listed with no registrants.

Close Internet Explorer.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have deployed
projects to both Websites and Cloud Services.

### Exercise 4: Monitoring the Web Applications in Azure

####   Task 1: View streaming logs for the Administration application {#task-1-view-streaming-logs-for-the-administration-application .ProcedureHeading}

1.  On the **View** menu, click
    **Server Explorer**.

Locate the **Azure** node and
click the arrow that is on the left side.

Expand the **Websites** node
under the **Azure** node.

Right-click the Website node
beginning with the prefix **ws20532*,*** and then click **View
Settings**.

Locate the **Application
Logging (File System)** setting.

Change the value in the list
from **Off** to **Verbose**.

Click **Save**.

Locate the **Website** node in
**Server Explorer** that begins with the prefix **ws20532**.

Right-click the Website node
that begins with the prefix **ws20532**, and then click **View Streaming
Logs**.

Locate the **Website** node in
Server Explorer that begins with the prefix **ws20532**.

Right-click the Website node
that begins with the prefix **ws20532**, and then click **View in
Browser**.

In Internet Explorer, view the
**Contoso Events Administration** home page, and then click **Go to
Events List**.

Switch to the **Contoso.Events –
Microsoft Visual Studio** window.

Verify that the **Console** pane
has two entries, one when you view the **Index** page of the Website and
the other when you view the **Events** page of the Website.

Locate the **Website** node in
**Server Explorer** that begins with the prefix **ws20532**.

Right-click the Website node
that begins with the prefix **ws20532**, and then click **Stop viewing
Logs**.

Close the **Internet Explorer**
application.

Close the **Microsoft Visual
Studio** application.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have viewed a live
stream of trace logs for a Website.

**\
**

©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this
document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use
this document for your internal, reference purposes. 

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in
this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may
change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are
for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is
intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here. 
