Module 11: Automating
Integration with Azure Resources

Lab: Automating the Creation of a Test Environment using PowerShell
-------------------------------------------------------------------

Objectives

After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

Install the Azure PowerShell modules.

Authenticate to Azure by using Windows PowerShell.

Create a Website instance by using Windows PowerShell.

Remove a Website instance by using Windows PowerShell.

Create a resource group from a template by using Windows PowerShell.

Remove a resource group by using Windows PowerShell.

Lab Setup

Estimated Time: 45 minutes

For this lab, you will use the available host machine. Before you begin
this lab, you must complete the following steps:

Prior to starting this lab, you must have completed the lab in **Module
2**.

1.  On the host computer, click **Start**, type **Remote**, and then
    click **Remote Desktop Connection**.

In Remote Desktop Connection, provide the name of your virtual machine
in the **Computer** box by using the following format:

**vm20532[*Your Name Here*].cloudapp.net:[*Your VM RDP Port*]**

>  **Note:** The name and port for your virtual
> machine might be saved in the Computer drop-down list. If this is the
> case, use this value instead of typing it in manually. If you are
> unsure about your virtual machine’s RDP port, use either of the Azure
> portals to find your virtual machine’s endpoints. The endpoint with
> the name **Remote Desktop** is the correct port for RDP. This port is
> randomized to protect your virtual machine from unauthorized access.

In Remote Desktop Connection, click **Connect**. Wait until the RDP
client accesses the virtual machine.

If necessary, sign in by using the following credentials:

> User name: **Student**
>
> Password: **AzurePa\$\$w0rd**

Verify that you received the credentials to sign in to the Azure portal
from your training provider. You will use these credentials and the
Azure account throughout the labs in this course.

### Exercise 1: Preparing the Azure PowerShell Environment

Scenario

In this exercise, you will:

Install the Azure PowerShell modules and cmdlets.

Authenticate to Azure in Windows PowerShell by using a Publish Settings
file.

View the account details by using Windows PowerShell

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1\. Open the Azure PowerShell Console.

2\. Import your Azure subscription by using a Publish Settings file.

####   Task 1: Open the Azure PowerShell Console {#task-1-open-the-azure-powershell-console .ProcedureHeading}

Open the **Microsoft Azure PowerShell** console window.

####   Task 2: Import your Azure subscription by using a Publish Settings file {#task-2-import-your-azure-subscription-by-using-a-publish-settings-file .ProcedureHeading}

1.  Authenticate to Azure by downloading and saving the Publish Settings
    file by using the following command and details:

Get-AzurePublishSettingsFile

> File name: **20532**
>
> Save as type: **PUBLISHSETTINGS file**
>
> Directory: **(F):\\Mod11\\Labfiles**

Authenticate to Azure by importing the saved Publish Settings file:

Import-AzurePublishSettingsFile
F:\\Mod11\\Labfiles\\20532.publishsettings

View your active account details:

Get-AzureAccount

>  **Note:** If you have multiple Azure
> subscriptions, you can use **Select-AzureSubscription** to select the
> appropriate subscription. If your Azure subscription is provided by a
> Learning Partner, it might be an auto-generated account without any
> details. In such a case, this command will return an empty result.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have set up a
development environment to use Windows PowerShell for Azure service
automation.

### Exercise 2: Using Windows PowerShell to create and access a Website instance

Scenario

In this exercise, you will:

View a list of Websites by using Windows PowerShell.

Create a Website by using Windows PowerShell.

Delete a Website by using Windows PowerShell.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1\. Create a new Website instance by using Windows PowerShell.

2\. Remove a Website instance by using Windows PowerShell.

####   Task 1: Create a new Website instance by using Windows PowerShell {#task-1-create-a-new-website-instance-by-using-windows-powershell .ProcedureHeading}

1.  Create a new Website by using a unique name:

New-AzureWebsite [Unique Name]

View the list of Websites for your subscription by using the following
command:

Get-AzureWebsite

View the details for your newly created Website by using the following
command:

Get-AzureWebsite –Name [Unique Name]

Record the **hostname** value from your new Website’s details.

View the newly created Website by using the following command:

explorer “http://[Host Name]”

Close Internet Explorer.

Switch to the **Microsoft Azure PowerShell** console window.

####   Task 2: Remove a Website instance by using Windows PowerShell {#task-2-remove-a-website-instance-by-using-windows-powershell .ProcedureHeading}

1.  Stop your newly created Website instance by using the following
    command:

Stop-AzureWebsite –Name [Unique Name]

View the list of Websites for your subscription by using the following
command:

Get-AzureWebsite

Remove your newly created Website instance by using the following
command:

Remove-AzureWebsite –Name [Unique Name]

View the details for your recently deleted Website by using the
following command:

Get-AzureWebsite –Name [Unique Name]

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used Windows
PowerShell to manage instances of an Azure service.

### Exercise 3: Using a resource template to create multiple preconfigured resources

Scenario

In this exercise, you will:

Authenticate to Azure in Windows PowerShell by using Azure Active
Directory.

Switch the Azure modules in use by using Windows PowerShell.

Create a resource group from a template by using Windows PowerShell.

Delete a resource group by using Windows PowerShell.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1\. Switch to the Azure Resource Manager PowerShell Modules.

2\. Import your Azure subscription by using Azure Active Directory.

3\. Create a resource group by using Windows PowerShell.

4\. Remove the resource group by using Windows PowerShell.

####   Task 1: Switch to the Azure Resource Manager PowerShell Modules {#task-1-switch-to-the-azure-resource-manager-powershell-modules .ProcedureHeading}

1.  Switch to the **AzureResourceManager** mode by using the following
    command:

Switch-AzureMode AzureResourceManager

####   Task 2: Import your Azure subscription by using Azure Active Directory {#task-2-import-your-azure-subscription-by-using-azure-active-directory .ProcedureHeading}

1.  Authenticate to Azure by signing in to your Azure Active Directory
    account:

Add-AzureAccount

View your active account details:

Get-AzureAccount

>  **Note:** If you have multiple Azure
> subscriptions, you can use **Select-AzureSubscription** to select the
> appropriate subscription.

####   Task 3: Create a resource group by using Windows PowerShell {#task-3-create-a-resource-group-by-using-windows-powershell .ProcedureHeading}

1.  View the description of the **Microsoft.WebSiteSQLDatabase**
    resource group template by using the following command:

Get-AzureResourceGroupGalleryTemplate -Identity
Microsoft.WebSiteSQLDatabase.0.2.0-preview

Create a new instance of the **Microsoft.WebSiteSQLDatabase** resource
group template by using following command and details:

New-AzureResourceGroup –Name rga20532 –Location “West
Us” -GalleryTemplateIdentity Microsoft.WebSiteSQLDatabase.0.2.0-preview

> siteName: **rs20532[*Your Name Here*]**
>
> hostingPlanName: **rp20532[*Your Name Here*]**
>
> siteLocation: **West US**
>
> serverName: **rv20532[*Your Name Here*]**.
>
> serverLocation: **West US**
>
> administratorLogin: **testuser**
>
> administratorLoginPassword: **TestPa\$\$w0rd**
>
> databaseName: **rd20532[*Your Name Here*]**
>
>  **Note:** Wait for the provisioning process to
> complete. Status messages will be displayed periodically and the final
> message with the details will be displayed when provisioning is
> complete.

View the details for your newly created resource group by using the
following command:

Get-AzureResourceGroup –ResourceGroupName rga20532

View the details for your newly created Website in your resource group
by using the following command:

Get-AzureResource -Name rs20532[Your Name Here] -ResourceGroupName
rga20532 -ResourceType "Microsoft.Web/sites" -ApiVersion 2014-04-01

Record the single value in the **hostNames** array from your new
Website’s details.

View the newly created Website by using the following command:

explorer “http://[Host Name]”

Close Internet Explorer.

Switch to the **Microsoft Azure PowerShell** console window.

####   Task 4: Remove the resource group by using Windows PowerShell {#task-4-remove-the-resource-group-by-using-windows-powershell .ProcedureHeading}

Remove your newly created resource group by using the following command:

Remove-AzureResourceGroup –Name rga20532

>  **Note:** Because removing a resource group
> involves removing multiple resources, this process can take 5 to 15
> minutes on average.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used Azure to
interact with the Resource Manager, resource groups, and resource group
templates.

©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this
document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use
this document for your internal, reference purposes. 

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in
this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may
change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are
for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is
intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here. 
