Module 4: Storing SQL
Data in Azure

Lab: Storing Event Data in Azure SQL Databases
----------------------------------------------

Scenario

Now that the web application is ready for publishing, you can begin
migrating the web application to Azure by creating a database in Azure.
You decided to use a database initializer and Entity Framework Code
First to automate the creation of your database in SQL Database.

Objectives

After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

Create an Azure SQL Database server and a database instance by using the
Management Portal.

Use Entity Framework Code First to initialize and seed a database in the
cloud.

Use the Azure SQL Database Management Portal to view live data in the
cloud.

Lab Setup

Estimated Time: 45 minutes

Before starting this lab, you must complete the lab in Module 2. For the
lab in this module, you will use the available host machine. Also, you
must complete the following steps:

1.  On the host computer, click **Start**, type **Remote**, and then
    click **Remote Desktop Connection**.

In Remote Desktop Connection, provide the name of your virtual machine
in the **Computer** box by using the following format:

**vm20532[*Your Name Here*].cloudapp.net:[*Your VM RDP Port*]**

>  **Note:** The name and port for your virtual
> machine might be saved in the Computer drop-down list. If this is the
> case, use this value instead of typing it in manually. If you are
> unsure about your virtual machine’s RDP port, use either of the Azure
> portals to find your virtual machine’s endpoints. The endpoint with
> the name **Remote Desktop** is the correct port for RDP. This port is
> randomized to protect your virtual machine from unauthorized access.

In Remote Desktop Connection, click **Connect**. Wait until the RDP
client accesses the virtual machine.

If necessary, sign in by using the following credentials:

> User name: **Student**
>
> Password: **AzurePa\$\$w0rd**

Verify that you received the credentials to sign in to the Azure portal
from your training provider. You will use these credentials and the
Azure account throughout the labs in this course.

Occasionally the Preview Portal may not successfully create a new
service instance. The portal is still technically in preview and can
potentially have unresolved bugs. If this happens, you can simply retry
the operation until your service instance is successfully created.

### Exercise 1: Creating an Azure SQL Databases Instance

Scenario

In this exercise, you will:

Create a SQL Server instance in Azure.

Create a database in Azure.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1\. Sign in to the Azure Preview Portal.

2\. Create an Azure SQL database by using the Preview Portal.

####   Task 1: Sign in to the Azure Preview Portal {#task-1-sign-in-to-the-azure-preview-portal .ProcedureHeading}

1.  Sign in to the Azure Preview Portal (<https://portal.azure.com>).

####   Task 2: Create an Azure SQL database by using the Preview Portal {#task-2-create-an-azure-sql-database-by-using-the-preview-portal .ProcedureHeading}

1.  View the list of SQL databases for your subscription.

Create a SQL database by using the following details:

-   Name: **db20532[*Your Name Here*]**

-   Edition: **Basic**

-   Server Name: **sv20532[*Your Name Here*]**

-   Server Admin Login: **testuser**

-   Server Admin Password: **TestPa\$\$w0rd**

-   Location: **Select the region that is closest to your location**

Record the name of the newly created SQL Database instance.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have created both
servers and databases in the SQL Database service.

### Exercise 2: Using Entity Framework with Azure SQL Databases

Scenario

In this exercise, you will:

Configure an Entity Framework Code First **DatabaseInitializer**.

Implement a **Seed** method for the initializer.

Publish a Cloud Services application.

View tables and data by using the Azure SQL Database Management Portal.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1\. Run the ASP.NET web application to view events from the local SQL
database.

2\. Configure DbContext with a new DatabaseInitializer.

3\. Implement seed data with DbContext.

4\. Publish the cloud application with updated DbContext to Azure.

5\. Verify that the Azure cloud service website is using the new data.

6\. Sign in to the Azure Management Portal.

7\. View the migrated data in the Azure SQL Management Portal.

####   Task 1: Run the ASP.NET web application to view events from the local SQL database {#task-1-run-the-asp.net-web-application-to-view-events-from-the-local-sql-database .ProcedureHeading}

1.  In Visual Studio, open the **Contoso.Events** solution from the
    following location:

    -   File location: **Allfiles
        (F):\\Mod04\\Labfiles\\Starter\\SQL\\Contoso.Events**

Debug the **Contoso.Events.DataGeneration** console project.

>  **Note:** This Data Generation console
> application creates some sample data in your local SQL database
> (LocalDb) so that you can test the ASP.NET web application.

Debug the **Contoso.Events.Cloud** cloud project.

####   Task 2: Configure DbContext with a new DatabaseInitializer {#task-2-configure-dbcontext-with-a-new-databaseinitializer .ProcedureHeading}

1.  In the **Contoso.Events.Data** project, create a new
    **EventsContextInitializer** class

Update the **EventsContextInitializer** class with the **public**
accessor.

Update the **EventsContextInitializer** class to inherit from the
**DropCreateDatabaseAlways\<EventsContext\>** class.

Add a **using** statement for the **Contoso.Events.Models** namespace.

Update the **EventsContext** static constructor with the following lines
of code:

Database.SetInitializer\<EventsContext\>(

new EventsContextInitializer()

);

####   Task 3: Implement seed data with DbContext {#task-3-implement-seed-data-with-dbcontext .ProcedureHeading}

1.  Override the **Seed** method of the **DropCreateDatabaseAlways\<\>**
    class.

Add a **using** statement for the **Contoso.Events.Models** namespace.

At the end of the **Seed** method, create an instance of the
**EventItem** class by using the following values:

-   EventKey: **"FY17SepGeneralConference"**

-   StartTime: **DateTime.Today**

-   EndTime: **DateTime.Today.AddDays(3d)**

-   Title: **"FY17 September Technical Conference"**

-   Description: **"Sed in euismod mi."**

-   RegistrationCount: **1**

At the end of the **Seed** method, add the newly created **EventItem**
to the **context.Events** collection.

At the end of the **Seed** method, create an instanced of the
**Registration** class by using the following values:

-   EventKey: **"FY17SepGeneralConference"**

-   FirstName: **"Aisha"**

-   LastName: **"Witt"**

At the end of the **Seed** method, add the newly created Registration to
the **context.Registrations** collection.

At the end of the **Seed** method, invoke the **context.SaveChanges()**
method.

Build the **Contoso.Events.Data** project.

####   Task 4: Publish the cloud application with updated DbContext to Azure {#task-4-publish-the-cloud-application-with-updated-dbcontext-to-azure .ProcedureHeading}

1.  Update the **Web.Release.config** file in the **Contoso.Events.Web**
    project to use a connection string to your Azure SQL database.

Publish the **Contoso.Events.Cloud** project to a new cloud service
project by using the following details:

-   Name: **cs20532[*Your Name Here*]**

-   Region: **Select the region that is closest to your location**

-   Environment: **Production**

-   Build configuration: **Release**

-   Service configuration: **Cloud**

####   Task 5: Verify that the Azure cloud service website is using the new data {#task-5-verify-that-the-azure-cloud-service-website-is-using-the-new-data .ProcedureHeading}

View the website for your published cloud service.

####   Task 6: Sign in to the Azure Management Portal {#task-6-sign-in-to-the-azure-management-portal .ProcedureHeading}

Sign in to the Azure Management Portal
(<https://manage.windowsazure.com>).

####   Task 7: View the migrated data in the Azure SQL Management Portal {#task-7-view-the-migrated-data-in-the-azure-sql-management-portal .ProcedureHeading}

1.  View the list of SQL databases for your subscription.

View the dashboard of your previously created SQL database:

-   Name: **db20532[*Your Name*]**

Sign in to the Management Portal for your SQL database by using the
following values:

-   Username: **testuser**

-   Password: **TestPa\$\$w0rd**

View the data in the **dbo.Events** table.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have configured
Entity Framework to initialize a new database with seed data.

©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this
document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use
this document for your internal, reference purposes. 

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in
this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may
change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are
for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is
intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here. 
