Module 6: Managing Cloud Services in Azure

Lab: Creating a Background Process Using Azure Worker Roles

### Exercise 1: Creating a C\# Class Library

####   Task 1: Create a C\# Class Library project {#task-1-create-a-c-class-library-project .ProcedureHeading}

1.  On the Start screen,
    > right-click the **Visual Studio 2013** tile.

2.  In the app bar, click
    > **Run as Administrator**.

>  **Note:** If the User Account Control (UAC)
> dialog box that displays, you can elevate the permissions to run
> Visual Studio 2013 as an administrator.

1.  On the Visual Studio start
    > screen, click **Open Project**.

2.  In the **Open Project**
    > dialog box, go to **Allfiles
    > (F):\\Mod06\\Labfiles\\Starter\\Contoso.Events**, and then click
    > **Contoso.Events.sln**.

3.  Click **Open**.

4.  Expand the **Solution
    > Explorer** pane to view the projects in the solution.

5.  In the **Solution
    > Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events** solution node.

6.  Point to **Add**.

7.  Click **New Project**.

8.  In the **Add New Project**
    > dialog box, perform the following steps:

Expand **Installed**, **Visual
C\#**, and then click **Windows Desktop**.

Click the **Class Library**
template.

In the Name box, type
Contoso.Events.Worker.

Click OK.

####   Task 2: Add a reference to the Azure SDK libraries and solution projects {#task-2-add-a-reference-to-the-azure-sdk-libraries-and-solution-projects .ProcedureHeading}

1.  Right-click the
    **Contoso.Events.Worker** project.

2.  Point to **Add**.

3.  Click **Reference**.

4.  In the **Reference Manager
    – Contoso.Events.Worker** dialog box, perform the following steps:

<!-- -->

a.  Expand **Assemblies**, and
    then click **Extensions**.

Select the
**Microsoft.WindowsAzure.ServiceRuntime** assembly with the version
number **2.4.0.0**.

Click **OK**.

1.  Right-click the
    **Contoso.Events.Worker** project.

2.  Point to **Add**.

3.  Click **Reference**.

4.  In the **Reference Manager
    – Contoso.Events.Worker** dialog box, perform the following steps:

<!-- -->

a.  Expand **Solution**, and
    then click **Projects**.

Select the
**Contoso.Events.Models** project.

Select the
**Contoso.Events.Data** project.

Select the
**Contoso.Events.Documents** project.

Click **OK**.

1.  On the **View** menu, point
    to **Other Windows**, and then click **Package Manager Console**.

2.  In the **Package Manager
    Console** pane, in the **Default Project** list, select
    **Contoso.Events.Worker**.

3.  In the **Package Manager Console** text area, place the cursor after
    the text PM\>,type the following command:

Install-Package EntityFramework -Version 6.0.2

1.  Press Enter.

2.  In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Worker** project,
    and then click **Build**.

####   Task 3: Create a class inheriting from RoleEntryPoint {#task-3-create-a-class-inheriting-from-roleentrypoint .ProcedureHeading}

1.  In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Worker** project.

2.  Point to **Add**.

3.  Click **New Item**.

4.  In the **Add New Item –
    Contoso.Events.Worker** dialog box, perform the following steps:

<!-- -->

a.  Expand **Installed**, and
    then expand **Visual C\# Items**.

Click the **Class** item.

In the **Name** box, type
**WorkerRole.cs**.

1.  Click **Add**.

2.  In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Worker** project.

3.  Double-click the
    **WorkerRole.cs** item.

4.  Locate the following line
    of code:

class WorkerRole

1.  Replace the single line of
    code that you located in step 8 with the following code:

public class WorkerRole

1.  Add the following **using**
    block at the top of the class:

using Microsoft.WindowsAzure.ServiceRuntime;

1.  Locate the following line
    of code:

public class WorkerRole

1.  Replace the single line of
    code that you located in step 11 with the following code:

public class WorkerRole : RoleEntryPoint

1.  Click anywhere between the
    opening and closing braces of the **WorkerRole** class.

2.  Use the **Enter** key to
    add vertical space for your method[s].

3.  Add the following block of
    code to your class:

public override bool OnStart()

{

ServicePointManager.DefaultConnectionLimit = 12;

return base.OnStart();

}

1.  Add the following **using**
    block at the top of the class:

using System.Net;

1.  Click anywhere between the
    opening and closing braces of the **WorkerRole** class.

2.  Use the **Enter** key to
    add vertical space for your method[s].

3.  Add the following block of
    code to your class:

public override void Run()

{

Trace.WriteLine("Queue Run Start");

while (true)

{

Thread.Sleep(10000);

Trace.WriteLine("Queue Run Iteration");

}

}

1.  Add the following **using**
    blocks at the top of the class:

using System.Diagnostics;

using System.Threading;

1.  Save the **WorkerRole.cs**
    class.

####   Task 4: Implement the run logic to get requests from the SQL database {#task-4-implement-the-run-logic-to-get-requests-from-the-sql-database .ProcedureHeading}

1.  Right-click the
    **Contoso.Events.Worker** project.

2.  Point to **Add** .

3.  Click **Existing Item**.

4.  In the **Add Existing Item
    – Contoso.Events.Worker** dialog box, perform the following steps:

5.  Go to **Allfiles
    (F):\\Mod06\\Labfiles\\Starter**.

6.  Click **WorkerRole.cs**.

7.  Click **Add**.

8.  In the **Destination File
    Exists** dialog box, click **Yes** to replace the existing file.

9.  In the **Microsoft Visual
    Studio** dialog box, click **Yes** to refresh the source editor.

10. In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Worker** project.

11. Double-click the
    **App.config** item.

12. Select the content of the
    configuration file.

13. Press Delete .

14. Type the following XML
    code:

\<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?\>

\<configuration\>

\<connectionStrings\>

\<add name="EventsContextConnectionString" connectionString="Data
Source=(localdb)\\v11.0;Initial
Catalog=EventsContextModule6Lab;Pooling=True;Integrated Security=True"

providerName="System.Data.SqlClient" /\>

\</connectionStrings\>

\</configuration\>

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have created a
Worker Role class library and implement the appropriate pattern for a
background worker.

### Exercise 2: Adding the Class Library to a Cloud Service Project

####   Task 1: Add Class Library as a worker role to the cloud service project {#task-1-add-class-library-as-a-worker-role-to-the-cloud-service-project .ProcedureHeading}

1.  In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Worker** project,
    and then click **Unload Project**.

2.  If you have not saved the
    project yet, you will be prompted to save the project. Click **Yes**
    to save the project

3.  In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Worker** project,
    and then click **Edit Contoso.Events.Worker.csproj**.

4.  Locate the
    **\<PropertyGroup\>** opening XML element.

5.   After the
    **\<PropertyGroup\>** XML element and before the
    **\<Configuration\>** XML element, add the following XML element:

\<RoleType\>Worker\</RoleType\>

1.  In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Worker** project,
    and then click **Reload Project**

2.  You will be prompted to
    close the **.**csproj file because it is already open. Click **Yes**
    to close the .csproj file.

3.  If you have not saved the
    file, you will be prompted to save the **.csproj** file. Click
    **Yes** to save the .csproj file.

4.  In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Cloud** project, and
    then expand the **Roles** folder.

5.  Right-click the **Roles**
    folder.

6.   Point to **Add**.

7.  Click **Worker Role Project
    in solution**.

>  **Note:** If the **Worker Role Project in
> Solution** option is disabled, you can enable it by reloading the
> **Contoso.Events.Worker** project by performing the following steps:

1.  In the **Solution**
    **Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Worker** project
    , and then click **Unload Project**.

2.  In the **Solution**
    **Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Worker**
    project, and then click **Reload Project**.

3.  In the **Associate with
    Role Project** dialog box, perform the following steps:

4.  Click
    **Contoso.Events.Worker**.

5.  Click **OK**.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have taken an
existing Class Library project and converted it into a worker role in an
existing cloud service project.

### Exercise 3: Debugging worker roles in a cloud service project

####   Task 1: Debug the worker role {#task-1-debug-the-worker-role .ProcedureHeading}

1.  In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Cloud** project,
    and then click **Set as Startup Project**.

2.  On the **Debug** menu,
    click **Start Debugging**.

>  **Note:** Throughout this course we will use the
> **Azure Compute Emulator** to test and debug our Cloud Services. The
> emulator provides a fast and local option for testing your Cloud
> Services before deploying them to the Azure platform. Occasionally you
> may seem an odd error with the emulator such as an incorrect port
> number or a page not displaying. If this ever occurs, you can simply
> **Shutdown** the compute emulator and Visual Studio will **Start** the
> emulator the next time you try to debug your project.** **

1.  On the homepage of the
    **Contoso Events** website, click the name of any event.

2.  Click **Generate Sign-In
    Sheet** .

3.  Refresh the page once every
    30 seconds until the sign-in sheet is generated.

>  **Note:** You will notice that the text of the
> button changes from **Generate Sign-In Sheet** to **Download Sign-In
> Sheet** indicating that sign-in sheet generation is complete.

1.  Click **Download Sign-In
    Sheet** to download the Word document.

2.  At the bottom of the
    Internet Explorer window, click **Open** in the download dialog box.

3.  Observe the content of the
    .docx file that you opened in WordPad.

4.  Close the **WordPad**
    application.

5.  Close the **Internet
    Explorer** application.

6.  Close the **Contoso.Events –
    Microsoft Visual Studio** application.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have debugged a
worker role.

### \

©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this
document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use
this document for your internal, reference purposes. 

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in
this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may
change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are
for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is
intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here. 
