#Module 10: Managing
Infrastructure in Azure



#Lab: Managing Multiple Virtual Machines in a Virtual Network


###

Scenario



To best replicate your existing production systems, you decided to
 create a virtual network and host another virtual machine in the virtual
 network. The new virtual machine will contain a SQL database that you
 will use for your test application. You will host the test application 
in an Azure Website in the same virtual network.


###Objectives



After you complete this lab, you will be able to:



Create a new Website.



Create a virtual machine by using a standard image.



###Lab Setup



Estimated Time: 45 minutes



Before starting this lab, you must complete the lab in Module 2. 

For the
lab in this module, you will use the available host machine. 
Also, you 
must complete the following steps:



On the host computer, click **Start**, type **Remote**, and then click
**Remote Desktop Connection**.


In Remote Desktop Connection, provide the name of your virtual machine
 in the **Computer** box by using the following format:



**vm20532[*Your Name Here*].cloudapp.net:[*Your VM RDP Port*]**



>  **Note:** The name and port for your virtual
 machine might be saved in the Computer drop-down list. If this is the
 case, use this value instead of typing it in manually. If you are
 unsure about your virtual machine’s RDP port, use either of the Azure
 portals to find your virtual machine’s endpoints. The endpoint with
 the name **Remote Desktop** is the correct port for RDP. This port is
 randomized to protect your virtual machine from unauthorized access.

In Remote Desktop Connection, click **Connect**. Wait until the RDP
 client accesses the virtual machine.



If necessary, sign in by using the following credentials:



>  User name: **Student**

>  Password: **AzurePa\$\$w0rd**



Verify that you received the credentials to sign in to the Azure portal 
from your training provider. You will use these credentials and the
Azure account throughout the labs in this course.



##Exercise 1:	Configuring the Existing Virtual Network



The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:



1.	Sign in to the Azure Management Portal.


2.	Configure point-to-site connectivity.


3.	Create the Gateway.



####Task 1:	Sign in to the Azure Management Portal



Sign in to the **Azure Management Portal**
(<https://manage.windowsazure.com>).



####Task 2:	Configure point-to-site connectivity

1.  Locate the **Dev20532** virtual network.


Configure point-to-site connectivity by using the following options:


>  Address Space: **172.16.0.0/29**

>
  Gateway Subnet**: 10.0.1.0/29**

 

>  **Note:** Updating Virtual Network configuration
 can take as long as 15 minutes. Refresh your browser periodically to 
check the status of the update. ** **



####Task 3:	Create the Gateway



Create the **gateway** for your Virtual Network instance.



>  **Note:** Gateway creation can take as long as
 15 minutes. Refresh your browser periodically to check the status of
 your new gateway. You can see that the gateway is created when the
 dashboard shows the **Gateway IP Address**. You can also optionally
 continue with the remainder of the lab while waiting for the gateway
 to be created.



>  Results:



##Exercise 2:	Creating the Database Virtual Machine



###Scenario



For your test application, you need a new virtual machine with SQL
 Server 2014 installed. 
You also need to configure this virtual machine
 so that other virtual machines can access it on the same network.


The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:



1.	Sign in to the Azure Preview Portal.


2.	Create the SQL Server 2014 Standard virtual machine.


3.	Connect to the new database virtual machine.


4.	Add a rule to the Windows Firewall for SQL Server.


5.	Enable Mixed Mode Authentication for SQL Server.



####Task 1:	Sign in to the Azure Preview Portal

1.  Sign in to the **Azure Preview Portal**
(<https://portal.azure.com>).



####Task 2:	Create the SQL Server 2014 Standard virtual machine



1.	Create a SQL Server 2014 Standard Virtual Machine by using the
 following details:



>  Host Name: **db20532[*Your Name Here*]**

>
  User Name: **testuser**

>
  Password: **TestPa\$\$w0rd**

>
  Pricing Tier: **A2 Standard**

>
  Virtual Network: **Dev20532**

>
  Storage Account: **stor20532[Your Name Here]**



Record the **Virtual IP Address** of the SQL Server Virtual Machine.



####Task 3:	Connect to the new database virtual machine

Connect to the newly created virtual machine by using Remote Desktop.



####Task 4:	Add a rule to the Windows Firewall for SQL Server

1.  Open Windows Firewall with Advanced Security.


Create a new ***i***nbound rule by using the following details:



>  Rule Type: **Port**

>
  Port Type: **TCP**

>
  Local Ports: **1433**

>
  Action: **Allow the connection**

>
  Apply for Domain: **Yes**

>
  Apply for Private: **Yes**

>
  Apply for Public: **Yes**



####Task 5:	Enable Mixed Mode Authentication for SQL Server


1.  Open SQL Server 2014 Management Studio.


Connect to your local **SQL Server** instance by using the following
details:



>  Server type: **Database Engine**

>
  Server name: **.**

>
  Authentication: **Windows Authentication**



Enable **SQL Server and Windows Authentication Mode** in the SQL Server
**Settings** menu.


Restart the **SQL Server** instance.


Add a new Login to the SQL Server instance by using the following
details:



>  Login name: **dbuser**

>  Login type: **SQL Server authentication**

>
  Password: **TestPa\$\$word**

>  Enforce password policy: **No**

>
  Enforce password expiration: **No**

>
  User must change password at next login: **No**

>  Server Roles: **public, sysadmin**



Create a new database with the name **Contoso.Test**.


Close the **Remote Desktop** application.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, your will have a new
 virtual machine with SQL Server 2014 installed that can use mixed mode
 authentication when accessed by an external virtual machine.



##Exercise 3:	Creating the Azure Website Instance



###Scenario



For your test application, you need a new Website deployed to the same
 virtual network as the previously created virtual machine.



The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:



1.	Create a Website instance.


2.	Deploy the Contoso.

Events database test web application.



####Task 1:	Create a Website instance


1.  Create a **Website** by using the following details:



>  Url: **Pick a unique name for the website**

>
  Web Hosting Plan Tier: **S1** **Standard**

>  Web Hosting Plan Name: **20532**



View the new **Website** blade.


Join the Website to the **Dev20532** virtual network.


Record the URL of the newly created Website instance.


Download the publish profile for your Website to the following location:



>  Save location: **Allfiles (F):\\Mod10\\Labfiles**



####Task 2:	Deploy the Contoso.Events database test web application



1.  Open the **Contoso.Events** solution from the following location:



>  File location: **Allfiles
> (F):\\Mod10\\Labfiles\\Starter\\Contoso.Events**



Switch to Visual Studio 2015.


Publish the ASP.NET web application by using the publish profile.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have created an 
Website in a virtual network and deploy a web application to the 
Website.



##Exercise 4:	Connecting the Test Application to the SQL Server Virtual Machine



###Scenario



You have a test ASP.NET application that can verify whether you can
 access a SQL Server instance. 
You want to debug this application in your 
development virtual machine to verify that you can access your SQL
Server instance on the private network.



The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:



1.	Retrieve your SQL Server virtual machine’s internal IP address.


2.	Locally debug the Contoso.Events database test web application.


3.	Debug the Contoso.Events database test web application in Azure.



####Task 1:	Retrieve your SQL Server virtual machine’s internal IP address



1.  Switch to Internet Explorer.



View the list of Virtual Machine instances for your subscription


View the blade for your **db20532[*Your Name Here*]** virtual machine.


Log the **Private IP Address** for your Virtual Machine instance.



####Task 2:	Locally debug the Contoso.Events database test web application



1.  Debug the web application, and then in the **IP Address** box on the
 home page, provide the internal IP address of the virtual machine
 running SQL Server to test if you can connect to the virtual machine
    successfully in your virtual network.



>  **Note:** Even though you can successfully
 connect to your virtual machine in the virtual network, this does not
necessarily mean that the virtual machine is accessible through the
 same ports to the outside world.



Close Internet Explorer.



####Task 3:	Debug the Contoso.Events database test web application in Azure

1.	Navigate to the URL of the Azure Website instance that you created earlier in this lab.


In the **IP Address** dialog box on the home page, provide the **Private
IP Address** of the virtual machine running SQL Server to test if you
can connect to the virtual machine successfully in your virtual network.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used the
internal IP address of the database virtual machine in your virtual
network to connect to SQL Server 2014.



©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved. The text in this
document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this
 document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any 
intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use
this document for your internal, reference purposes. 



This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in 
this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may
 change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are 
for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is 
intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here.