#Module 2: Establishing a Development Environment using Azure Virtual Machines

#Lab: Creating an Azure Virtual Machine for Development and Testing

###Scenario

Before you begin the process of migrating your application from an on premise server to Azure, you must create a development environment. You have elected to use Azure to host a Windows Server 2012 Virtual Machine. In this Virtual Machine, you will install project files, Visual Studio 2015 Community Edition, Azure SDK for .NET 2.4 and Azure PowerShell. Once complete, you will use this virtual machine for all remaining development tasks.

###Objectives

After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

* Create an affinity group in your Azure subscription.

* Create a virtual network.

* Create a Storage instance.

* Create a virtual machine.

* Manage the virtual machine VHDs.

* Install development software on a virtual machine.

###Lab Setup

**Estimated Time: 90 minutes**

For this lab, you will use the available host machine. Before you begin this lab, you must complete the following steps:

  1. Verify that you received the credentials from your training provider to sign in to the Azure portal. You will use these credentials and the Azure account throughout the labs in this course.

##Exercise 1: Creating a Network and Resource Container

###Scenario

You want to create a virtual network that you can use for your new virtual machine. As part of creating the virtual network, you will also create a resource group.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Sign in to the Preview Portal.

2. Create a virtual network and a resource group.

####Task 1:	Sign in to the Preview Portal

1. Sign in to the Preview Portal (<https://portal.azure.com>).

2. Click **Get Started**.

####Task 2:	Create a virtual network and a resource group

1. View the list of virtual networks for your subscription.

2. Create a virtual network by using the following details:

  - Name: **Dev20532**

  - Location: **Select the region that is closest to your location**

  - New Resource Group: **Dev20532**

  - Address Space CIDR block: **10.0.0.0/16**

  - Subnet CIDR block: **10.0.0.0/24**

> **Results**:	After completing this exercise, you will have a new virtual network and resource group in Azure.

##Exercise 2: Creating a Development Virtual Machine

###Scenario

You need a new storage account that you will use while creating your virtual machine.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create a storage account.

2. Create a virtual machine.

####Task 1:	Create a storage account

1. View the list of Storage instances for your subscription.

2. Create a Storage instance by using the following details:

  - Name: **stor20532[Your Name Here]**

  - Location: **Select the region that is closest to your location**

  - Pricing Tier (Replication): **Locally Redundant (L LRS)**

####Task 2:	Create a virtual machine

1. View the list of virtual machines for your subscription.

2. Create a virtual machine by using the following details:

  - Host Name: **vm20532[Your Name Here]**

  - User Name: **Student**

  - Password: **AzurePa\$\$w0rd**

  - Pricing Tier: **A3 Standard**

  - Virtual Network: **Dev20532**

  - Resource Group: **Dev20532**

  - Storage Account: **stor20532[Your Name Here]**

3. Add a second disk to the virtual machine by using the following settings:

  - Disk File Name: **vm20532-AllFiles.vhd**

  - Size (GB): **6**

  - Storage Account: **stor20532[Your Name Here]**

  - Storage Container: **vhds**

4. Connect to the newly created virtual machine by using Remote Desktop.

> **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have a new virtual machine stored in a new storage account.

##Exercise 3:	Configuring the Virtual Machine for Development

###Scenario

Now that you have a new virtual machine, you decided to install
Microsoft Visual Studio 2015 Community Edition, Azure PowerShell, and
the Azure software development kit (SDK) for .NET 2.6.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Create an AllFiles drive.

2. Install Visual Studio 2015 Community Edition.

3. Install Azure SDK for .NET 2.6.

4. Install Azure PowerShell Module.

####Task 1:	Create an AllFiles drive

1. If Server Manager is not already open, open **Server Manager**.

2. Disable **Internet Explorer Enhanced Security Configuration**.

3. Initialize the new disk by using the Windows Disk Manager.

4. Format the new empty drive partition by using the following settings:

  - Drive Letter: **F**

  - Volume Label: **AllFiles**

  - Partition Style: **MBR (Master Boot Record)**

5. Download the **AllFiles** compressed folder from the GitHub website

  - (https://github.com/MicrosoftLearning/20532-DevelopingMicrosoftAzureSolutions/releases/latest)

6. Unblock the AllFiles compressed folder.

7. Extract the content of the AllFiles compressed folder to the drive F.

  - Extract target: **Allfiles** **(F):\\**

####Task 2:	Install Visual Studio 2015 Community Edition

1. Download and run the Visual Studio 2015 Community Edition installation file from **http://go.microsoft.com/?linkid=9877445**.

2. Install the trail version of **Visual Studio 2015 Community Edition** by selecting only the following optional features:

  - **Microsoft Office Developer Tools**

  - **Microsoft SQL Server Data Tools**

  - **Microsoft Web Developer Tools**

3. The installer will restart the virtual machine.  Reconnect to the previously created virtual machine.

4. Start **Visual Studio 2015** and allow the first-run experience to complete.

5. Close **Visual Studio 2015**.

####Task 3:	Install Azure SDK for .NET 2.6

1. Download and run the **Azure SDK for .NET 2.6** launcher for Web Platform Installer from **http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=518003**.

2. In Web Platform Installer, install the **Windows Azure SDK for .NET (VS 2015) – 2.6** package.

3. Open **Visual Studio 2015**.

4. Open the **Azure** node in the **Server Explorer** pane.

5. Import your Azure subscription.

####Task 4:Install Azure PowerShell Module

1. Download and run the **Azure PowerShell** installation file from **http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=320376**.

2. Install the **Azure PowerShell** module.

> **Note:** You are now connected to your lab environment virtual machine.

> **Results**: After completing this exercise, your development virtual machine will have Visual Studio, Azure PowerShell, and the Azure SDK installed.

©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.  
This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.  
