#Module 12:	Securing Azure Web Applications



#Lab:	Integrating Azure Active Directory with the Events Administration
Portal



##Exercise 1:	Creating an Azure AD



####Task 1:	Sign in to the Azure Management Portal

>  **Note:** For this lab, you will use the
 Management Portal because the functionality to create new Azure Active
 Directory domains is not available in the Preview Portal.



On the Start screen, click the
**Internet Explorer** tile.


Go to
[*https://manage.windowsazure.com*](https://manage.windowsazure.com)


Enter the email address and
 password for your Microsoft account, and then click **Sign In**.



####Task 2:	Create an directory by using the Management Portal

1.  In the navigation pane on
 the left side of the screen, scroll down, and then click **Active
    Directory**.

Click the **Directory** tab at
 the top of the page.


At the bottom of the screen,
click **+New**.


Select **APP SERVICES**,
**ACTIVE** **DIRECTORY**, **DIRECTORY**, and then click **CUSTOM**
**CREATE**.


In the **Add Directory**
dialog box, perform the following steps:



In the **Directory** list,
select **Create new directory**.


In the **Name** box, type
**20532**.


In the **Domain Name** box,
type **ad20532[*Your Name*]**.


In the **Country or Region**
list, select your current location.


Click the check mark button to
 add the directory.



####Task 3:	Create a Global Administrator role in the directory



1.  In the list of
 directories, click the name of the directory **20532**.


Click the **Users** tab at the
top of the page.


At the bottom of the screen,
click **Add User**.


In the **Add user** dialog
 box, perform the following steps:



a.  In the **Type of User**
 list, select **New user in your organization**.


In the **User Name** box, type
**admin**.


In the **Domain** list, ensure
 that only your domain (**ad20532[*Your Name*]**) is selected.


Click the right arrow to move
to the next step in the wizard.


In the **First Name** box,
type **Admin**.


In the **Last Name** box, type
**User**.


In the **Display Name** box,
type **Admin User**.


In the **Role** list, select
**Global Administrator**.


In the **Alternate Email
Address** box, type **example@contoso.com**.


Ensure the **Enable
Multi-Factor Authentication** check box is cleared.


Click the right arrow to move
 to the next step in the wizard.


On the **Get Temporary
Password** screen, click **Create** to create the user.


Record the temporary password
 that is generated for the user.


Click the check mark button to
complete the wizard.



####Task 4:	Create a User role in the directory

1.  At the bottom of the
 screen, click **Add User**.


In the **Add User** dialog
 box, perform the following steps:



a.  In the **Type of User**
 list, select **New user in your organization**.


b.  In the **User Name** box,
 type **standard**.


c.  In the **Domain** list,
 ensure that only your domain (**ad20532[*Your Name*]**) is selected.


d.  Click the right arrow to
 move to the next step in the wizard.


e.  In the **First Name** box,
 type **Standard**.


f.  In the **Last Name** box, type **User**.


In the **Display Name** box,
type **Standard User**.


a.  In the **Role** list,
 select **User**.


b.  Ensure the **Enable Multi-Factor Authentication** check box is cleared.


c.  Click the right arrow to
 move to the next step in the wizard.


d.  On the **Get Temporary
 Password** screen, click **Create** to create the user.


e.  Record the temporary
 password that is generated for the user.


f.  Click the check mark button
 to complete the wizard.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have created an
 Azure AD and populated the directory with users.



##Exercise 2:	Securing an Existing ASP.NET Web Application



####Task 1:	Add the Authorize attribute to the HomeController class

1.  On the Start screen, click
 the **Desktop** tile.


On the taskbar, click the
**File Explorer** icon.


In the Libraries window, go to
**Allfiles (F):\\Mod12\\Labfiles\\Starter\\Contoso.Events**, and then
double-click **Contoso.Events.sln**.


In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Administration** folder.


Expand the
**Contoso.Events.Management.Old** project.


Expand the **Controllers**
folder.


Double-click the
**HomeController.cs** file.


Locate the class definition at
the top of the file:


public class HomeController : Controller



In the line above the class
definition, add the **Authorize** attribute:


[Authorize]

Save the **HomeController.cs**
file.



####Task 2: Debug the web application



1.  In the **Solution
 Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Management.Old**
 project, and then click **Set as Startup Project**.


On the **Debug** menu, click
**Start Debugging**.


Wait for Internet Explorer to
open.


Verify that the website returns
 a **401 – Unauthorized** error message.


Switch to the Contoso.Events –
Microsoft Visual Studio window.


On the **Debug** menu, click
**Stop Debugging**.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used MVC to
 ensure that a user is signed in before accessing a controller or action.



##Exercise 3:	Integrating Azure AD with ASP.NET Identity


####Task 1:	Create a new management web application by using Azure AD as the identity provider

1.  In the **Solution Explorer** pane, right-click the **Administration** solution folder, point to **Add**, and then click **New Project**.


In the **Add New Project**
dialog box, perform the following steps:



a.  Expand **Installed**, expand **Templates**, expand **Visual C\#**, and then click **Web**.


Click the **ASP.NET Web
Application** project type.


In the **Name** box, type
**Contoso.Events.Management**.


Ensure that the **Location**
box has the value **F:\\Mod12\\Labfiles\\Starter\\Contoso.Events**.


Click **OK**.


In the **New ASP.NET Project –
Contoso.Events.Management** dialog box, perform the following steps:



a.  Click the **MVC** template.


Ensure that the **Microsoft
Azure – Host in the Cloud** check box is cleared.


Leave the remaining fields to
 their default values.


Click **Change
Authentication**.


In the **Change
Authentication** dialog box, select **Organizational Accounts**.



a.  In the **Domain** box, type
 **ad20532[*Your Name*].onmicrosoft.com**.


Leave the default values in the
remaining fields.


Click **OK**.



>  **Note:** The screens that display during
 sign-in process might vary depending on whether you signed in by using
 that domain lately or set up Internet Explorer to remember a specific
 sign-in.



Sign in by using the **Admin
User** account (**admin@ad20532[*Your Name*].onmicrosoft.com**) and the
 temporary password that is created earlier in this lab.


In the **Change Password**
dialog box, update your password to **Pa\$\$w0rd**.


In the **New ASP.NET Project –
Contoso.Events.Management** dialog box, click **OK**.


In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Administration** folder.


Right-click the
**Contoso.Events.Management** project, and then click **Set as StartUp
Project**.


In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Administration** folder.


Right-click the
**Contoso.Events.Management** project, point to **Add**, and then click
**Reference**.


In the **Reference Manager –
Contoso.Events.Management** dialog box, perform the following steps:



a.  On the left side, expand
 the **Solution** tab and then click the **Projects** option.


Double-click the
**Contoso.Events.Models** reference.


Double-click the
**Contoso.Events.ViewModels** reference.


Click **OK**.


In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Administration** folder.


Expand the
**Contoso.Events.Management.Old** project.


Copy the following folders:



-   **App\_Start**


-   **Content**


-   **Controllers**


-   **Fonts**


-   **Scripts**


-   **Views**



>  **Note:** To copy all the folders at once press
 the Shift key and then click the **App\_Start** and **Views** folders.
 This will select all six folders at the same time. You can then use
 the shortcut menu or press Ctrl+C to copy the folders.



Paste all the copied folders in
the **Contoso.Events.Management** project.


When prompted to merge the
 folders, click **Apply to all items**, and then click **Yes**.


When prompted with
**Destination File Exists**, click **Apply to all items**, and then
click **Yes**.



####Task 2:	Verify that the Management web application requires a sign-in by using an organizational account



1.  In the **Solution
 Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Management**
 project, and then click **Set as Startup Project**.


On the **Debug** menu, click
**Start Debugging**.


A **Microsoft Visual Studio**
dialog will appear indicating that you can configure IIS Express to
 trust the self-signed certificate.
Click **Yes**.


A **Security Warning** dialog
will appear indicating that the self-signed certificate cannot be
 verified but can still be installed.
Click **Yes**.


Sign in by using the **Standard
User** account and temporary password that was created earlier in this
lab.


In the **Change Password**
dialog box, update your password to **Pa\$\$w0rd**.


View the home page of the
**Contoso.Events.Management** web application.


Click **Go To Events List** to
 view the list of events.


Close the **Internet Explorer**
application.


Close the **Microsoft Visual
Studio** application.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used an Azure
AD domain with the ASP.NET Identity framework.




©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved. The text in this
 document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this
 document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
 intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use
 this document for your internal, reference purposes. 



This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in
this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may
change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are
for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is
intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here.
