#Module 4: Storing SQL Data in Azure



#Lab: Storing Event Data in Azure SQL Databases



##Exercise 1:	Creating an Azure SQL Databases Instance



####Task 1:	Sign in to the Azure Preview Portal

On the Start screen, click the
**Internet Explorer** tile.


Go to
 <https://portal.azure.com>.


In the email address box, type
 the email address of your Microsoft account.


Click Continue.


In the password box, type your 
password for your Microsoft account.


Click **Sign In**.



####Task 2:	Create an Azure SQL database by using the Preview Portal

1.  In the navigation pane on
 the left side, scroll down, and then click **Browse**.


In the **Browse** blade that
 displays, click **SQL databases**.


At the bottom-left corner of
 the portal, click **New**.


In the **New** blade that 
displays, click **SQL Database**.



In the **SQL database** blade 
that displays, perform the following steps:



In the **Name** box, type
**db20532[*Your Name Here*]**.


Click **Pricing Tier**.


In the **Recommended pricing 
tier** blade that displays, select **Basic**.


Click **Select** to close the
 blade.


Click **Select Source**.


Select the **Blank Database**
option.


In the **SQL database** blade,
click **Server**.


In the **Server** blade that 
displays, click **Create a new server**.


In the **New Server** blade 
that displays, locate the **Server Name** box.


In the **Server Name** box,
 type **sv20532[*Your Name Here*]**.


In the **Server Admin Login**
box, type **testuser**.


In the **Password** box, type
**TestPa\$\$w0rd**.


In the **Confirm Password**
box, type **TestPa\$\$w0rd**.


Click **Location**.

In the **Location** blade that
 displays, select the region that is closest to your location.

In the **New server** blade,
 click **OK**.


In the **SQL database** blade, click **Create** to create the SQL
 database and server.


Write down the name of the new 
SQL database.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have created both 
servers and databases in the SQL Database service.



##Exercise 2:	Using Entity Framework with Azure SQL Databases



####Task 1:	Run the ASP.NET web application to view events from the local SQL database


1.  On the Start screen, click
 the **Desktop** tile.


On the taskbar, click the
**File Explorer** icon.


In the Libraries window, go to
**Allfiles (F):\\Mod04\\Labfiles\\Starter\\SQL\\Contoso.Events**, and
 then double-click **Contoso.Events.sln**.


In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.DataGeneration** project, point
to **Debug**, and then click **Start New Instance**.



>  **Note:** The Data Generation script takes between one to two minutes
 to run.** 

**

In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Cloud** project, and then click
**Set as Startup Project**.


On the **Debug** menu, click
**Start Debugging**.


On the home page of the web
 application, verify that it shows a list of multiple events.


Close the tab that is
displaying the website.



####Task 2:	Configure DbContext with a new DatabaseInitializer

1.  In the **Solution
 Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Data** project,
 point to **Add,** and then click **NewItem**.



In the **Add New Item** dialog
 box, perform the following steps:



a.  Expand **Installed**, expand **Visual C\# Items**, and then click **Code**.


Click the **Class** template.


In the **Name** box, type
**EventsContextInitializer.cs**.


Click **Add**.


In the
**EventsContextInitializer** class, add the **public** accessor to the 
left of the class definition:


class EventsContextInitializer



Verify that the updated class 
definition looks like the following line of code:

 
public class EventsContextInitializer



In the
**EventsContextInitializer** class, add the
**DropCreateDatabaseAlways\<EventsContext\>** inheritance statement to
 the right of the class definition:


public class EventsContextInitializer



Verify that the updated class
definition looks like the following line of code:


public class EventsContextInitializer :
DropCreateDatabaseAlways\<EventsContext\>



Add this **using** statement at 
the top of the code file:

using System.Data.Entity;



In the Solution Explorer pane,
expand the **Contoso.Events.Data** project.


In the **Contoso.Events.Data**
project, open the **EventsContext.cs** file.


Within the static constructor
**static EventsContext()**, add the following line of code:

Database.SetInitializer\<EventsContext\>(new
EventsContextInitializer());



Save the EventsContext.cs file.



####Task 3:	Implement seed data with DbContext


1.  In the Solution Explorer
 pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Data** project.


In the **Contoso.Events.Data**
project, open the **EventsContextInitializer.cs** file.


Add the following method to the
**EventsContextInitializer** class:


protected override void Seed(EventsContext context)

{



}

Add the following **using**
statement at the top of the code file:


using Contoso.Events.Models;



Place the cursor before the
closing parenthesis of the **Seed(EventsContext context)** method, and 
then type the following lines of code:


Event eventItem = new Event();

eventItem.EventKey = "FY17SepGeneralConference";

eventItem.StartTime = DateTime.Today;

eventItem.EndTime = DateTime.Today.AddDays(3d);

eventItem.Title = "FY17 September Technical Conference";

eventItem.Description = "Sed in euismod mi.";

eventItem.RegistrationCount = 1;



Place the cursor before the
 closing parenthesis of the **Seed(EventsContext context)** method, and
 then type the following line of code:


context.Events.Add(eventItem);



Place the cursor before the
 closing parenthesis of the **Seed(EventsContext context)** method, and 
then type the following lines of code:


Registration registrationItem = new Registration();

registrationItem.EventKey = "FY17SepGeneralConference";

registrationItem.FirstName = "Aisha";

registrationItem.LastName = "Witt";



Place the cursor before the
 closing parenthesis of the **Seed(EventsContext context)** method, and
 then type the following line of code:


context.Registrations.Add(registrationItem);



Place the cursor before the 
closing parenthesis of the **Seed(EventsContext context)** method, and 
then type the following line of code:


context.SaveChanges();

Save the
EventsContextInitializer.cs file.



In the Solution Explorer pane,
right-click the **Contoso.Events.Data** project, and then click
**Build**.



####Task 4:	Publish the cloud application with updated DbContext to Azure


1.  In the **Solution
 Explorer** pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Web** project.


In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Web.config** file in the **Contoso.Events.Web**
project.

Double-click the
**Web.Release.config** file.


In the **Web.Release.config**
file, update the connection string with the key
**EventsContextConnectionString** with the following values:



-   [database]: **db20532[*Your
    Name Here*]**


-   [login]: **testuser**

-   [server]: **sv20532[*Your
    Name Here*]**


-   [password]:
    **TestPa\$\$w0rd**



Save the **Web.Release.config**
file.


In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Cloud** project, and then click
**Publish**.


In the **Publish Azure
Application** dialog box, perform the following steps:



a.  If you have not selected a
 subscription before, perform the following steps:



If prompted, sign in with your 
Microsoft account.


Locate the **Choose your
subscription** list, and then select your Azure subscription.


Click **Next**.


If you selected a subscription 
in the past, you will be directed to the **Windows Azure Publish
Settings** step in the wizard.


Open the **Create Cloud
Service** **and Storage Account** dialog box.



a.  If you do not have any
 existing cloud services, the **Create Cloud Service** **and Storage Account** dialog box displays.



If you have existing cloud
 services, locate the **Cloud Service** list, and then select **Create
New** to open the dialog box.


In the **Create Cloud Service
 and Storage Account** dialog box, perform the following steps:



a.  In the **Name** box, type
 **cs20532[*Your Name*]***.
*

In the **Region or Affinity
Group** list, select the region that is closest to your location.


Click **Create**.


In the **Microsoft Azure
Publish Settings** dialog box, perform the following steps:



a.  Leave the default values in
 all the fields.

Click **Publish**.



>  **Note:** It typically takes five to ten minutes for the publish
 process to complete. You can track the progress of your publish in the
 Windows Azure Activity Log pane that displays when you publish your
 cloud service project.** **



####Task 5:	Verify that the Azure cloud service website is using the new data



1.  Wait for the publish
 process to complete and the console window to display the message
 **Complete**.



>  **Note:** The publish process is complete when
 the message “**Complete”** displays in the **Windows Azure Activity
> Log**’s history console. The green circular indicator in the Activity
 Log does not indicate that the publish process is complete, but it
 indicates that the package is uploaded successfully.



In the **Windows Azure Activity
Log** console, click the hyperlink that directs you to the published web application.


Verify that the website
 displays the single event that you created in your Entity Framework
context initializer.



####Task 6:	Sign in to the Azure Management Portal

1.  On the Start screen, click
 the **Internet Explorer** tile.


Go to
[*https://manage.windowsazure.com*](https://manage.windowsazure.com).


In the email address box, type
 the email address of your Microsoft account, in the password box, type 
the password of your Microsoft account, and then click **Sign In**.



####Task 7:	View the migrated data in the Azure SQL Management Portal

1.  In the navigation pane on
 the left side, scroll down, and then click **SQL Databases**.


At the top of the screen, click
**Databases**.
In the list of **SQL
Databases**, click the **Name** of your SQL database with the prefix
**db20532**.


At the top of the screen, click
**Dashboard**.


At the bottom of the page,
click **Manage**.


In the dialog box, you will be
 prompted to add your IP address to those present in the firewall rules
 for the database, click **Yes** to confirm this choice.



>  **Note:** .Notice that Internet Explorer blocks
 the dialog boxes. To view this dialog box, in the yellow warning
 message at the bottom of the Internet Explorer window, click **Options
 for this Site**, and then click **Always Allow**. This allows you to
 view dialog boxes without any restriction. 

After these steps are
 complete, the Azure Management Portal refreshes. 
You can then click
 **Manage** to resume the lab.


After your IP address is added, you will be prompted again to manage
 your database. 
Click **Yes** to manage your database.



>  **Note:** Some versions of the Windows Server
 Virtual Machine image may not have the Silverlight client installed.
 If prompted, please install the Silverlight client.

In the **Management Portal –
SQL Database** dialog box, perform the following steps:



a.  In the **Username** box,
 type **testuser**.


In the **Password** box, type
**TestPa\$\$w0rd**.


Click **Log On**.


At the lower-left corner of the
**Management Portal – SQL Database** dialog box, click **Design**.


In the **Tables** list, click 
the **dbo.Events** table.


Click the **Edit** button that 
is on the right side of the selected table.


At the top of the table’s page,
click **Data**
.
In the **dbo.Events** table,
view the single record.


Close the **Management Portal –
SQL Database** window.


Close the **Internet Explorer**
application.


Close the **Contoso.Events –
Microsoft Visual Studio** window.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have configured 
Entity Framework to initialize a new database with seed data.

** **



©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved. The text in this
 document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this
 document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any 
intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use 
this document for your internal, reference purposes. 



This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in
this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may 
change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are 
for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is 
intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here.