#Module 11: Automating Integration with Azure Resources



#Lab: Automating the Creation of a Test Environment using PowerShell



##Exercise 1: Preparing the Azure PowerShell Environment



####Task 1:	Open the Azure PowerShell Console



On the Start screen, click the down arrow to view all the applications, and then click **Microsoft
Azure PowerShell**.


Switch to the **Microsoft Azure
PowerShell** window.



####Task 2:	Import your Azure subscription by using a Publish Settings file

1.  To get your publish
 settings file, type the following command in the console, and then
 press **Enter**:

Get-AzurePublishSettingsFile



In the **Internet Explorer**
tab that opens, perform the following steps:



Enter the email address of your 
Microsoft account.


Click Continue.


Enter the password for your
 Microsoft account.


Click **Sign In**.


At the bottom of the Internet
 Explorer window, click the arrow that is on the right side of the
**Save** button, and then click **Save As** in the download dialog box.


In the **Save As** dialog box 
that displays, perform the following steps:



a.  Go to the AllFiles
 (F):\\Mod11\\Labfiles folder.


In the **File Name** box, type
**20532**.


In the **Save as type** box,
ensure that the **PUBLISHSETTINGS File** option is selected.


Click **Save**.


Close Internet Explorer.


Switch to the **Microsoft Azure
PowerShell** application.


To import your publish settings 
file, type the following command in the console, and then press Enter:


Import-AzurePublishSettingsFile
F:\\Mod11\\Labfiles\\20532.publishsettings



To view your account details,
type the following command in the console, and then press Enter:


Get-AzureAccount



>  **Note:** If you have multiple Azure
 subscriptions, you can use **Select-AzureSubscription** to select the
 appropriate subscription.
If your Azure subscription is provided by a Learning Partner, it might
 be an auto-generated account without any details. In such a case, this
 command will return an empty result.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have set up a 
development environment to use Windows PowerShell for Azure service
 automation.



##Exercise 2:	Using Windows PowerShell to create and access a Website instance



####Task 1:	Create a new Website instance by using Windows PowerShell


1.  To create a new Website,
 type the following command in the console by providing the unique
 name selected for your Website, and then press Enter:


New-AzureWebsite [Unique Name]



>  **Note:** You might get an error message
 notifying you that your Website’s name is not unique. If this occurs,
 select a new name until your Website is created.

 

To view a list of your
 Websites, type the following command in the console, and then press
Enter:


Get-AzureWebsite



To get the details for your new 
Website, type the following command in the console by providing the
 unique name selected for your Website, and then press Enter:


Get-AzureWebsite –Name [Unique Name]



Record the **hostname** value
 from the list of key-value pairs that are generated by the previous 
command.


To view the new Website in
 Internet Explorer, type the following command in the console, and then 
press Enter:

explorer “http://[Host Name]”



Verify that the new Website is
 running.


Close Internet Explorer.


Switch to the **Microsoft Azure
PowerShell** console window.



####Task 2:	Remove a Website instance by using Windows PowerShell

1.  To stop your new Website, type the following command in the console by providing the unique name selected for your Website, and then press Enter:


Stop-AzureWebsite –Name [Unique Name]



To view the list of your 
Websites, type the following command in the console, and then press
Enter:


Get-AzureWebsite



To remove your new Website,
type the following command in the console by providing the unique name
 selected for your Website, and then press Enter:


Remove-AzureWebsite –Name [Unique Name]



Type **Y** to indicate that you 
want to remove the Website, and then press Enter.


To verify that your Website is
 removed, type the following command in the console by providing the 
unique name selected for your Website, and then press Enter. The result 
should be empty:
Get-AzureWebsite –Name [Unique
Name]



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used Windows
PowerShell to manage instances of an Azure service.



##Exercise 3:	Using a resource template to create multiple preconfigured resources



####Task 1:	Switch to the Azure Resource Manager PowerShell Modules


To switch modules, type the
 following command in the console, and then press Enter:


Switch-AzureMode
AzureResourceManager



####Task 2:	Import your Azure subscription by using Azure Active Directory

1.  To sign in to Azure, type
 the following command in the console, and then press Enter:


Add-AzureAccount



In the **Sign in to Windows
Azure** dialog box, perform the following steps:



a.  Enter the email address of your Microsoft account.


Click Continue.


Enter the password for your
 Microsoft account.


Click **Sign In**.


To view your account details,
type the following command in the console, and then press Enter:


Get-AzureAccount



>  **Note:** If you have multiple Azure
 subscriptions, you can use **Select-AzureSubscription** to select the
 appropriate subscription.



####Task 3: Create a resource group by using Windows PowerShell

1.  To view the description of
 the resource group template, type the following command in the
 console, and then press Enter:


Get-AzureResourceGroupGalleryTemplate -Identity
Microsoft.WebSiteSQLDatabase.0.2.0-preview



To create a new instance of a 
resource group from the template, type the following command in the 
console, and then press Enter:


New-AzureResourceGroup –Name rga20532 –Location “West
Us” -GalleryTemplateIdentity Microsoft.WebSiteSQLDatabase.0.2.0-preview



To provide the parameters for 
the template, perform the following steps:



a.  For the **siteName**
 prompt, provide the value **rs20532[*Your Name Here*]**, and press
 Enter.


For the **hostingPlanName**
prompt, provide the value **rp20532[*Your Name Here*]**, and then press 
Enter.


For the **siteLocation**
prompt, provide the value **West US**, and then press Enter.


For the **serverName** prompt,
provide the value **rv20532[*Your Name Here*]**, and then press Enter.


For the **serverLocation**
prompt, provide the value **West US**, and then press Enter.


For the **administratorLogin**
prompt, provide the value **testuser,** and then press Enter.


For the
**administratorLoginPassword** prompt, provide the value
**TestPa\$\$w0rd**, and press Enter.


For the **databaseName**
prompt, provide the value **rd20532[*Your Name Here*]**, and press
Enter.



>  **Note:** Wait for the provisioning process to
 complete. Status messages will be displayed periodically and the final
 message with the details will be displayed when provisioning is
 complete.

To get the details of your new
 resource group, type the following command in the console by providing 
the unique name selected for your Website, and then press Enter:


Get-AzureResourceGroup –ResourceGroupName rga20532



To get the details of your new
 Website, type the following command in the console by providing the
 unique name selected for your Website, and then press Enter:


Get-AzureResource -Name rs20532[Your Name Here] -ResourceGroupName
rga20532 -ResourceType "Microsoft.Web/sites" -ApiVersion 2014-04-01



Record the single value in the
**hostNames** array from the JSON data generated by the previous
 command.


To view the new Website in
 Internet Explorer, type the following command in the console, and then
 press Enter:

explorer “http://[Host Name]”



Verify that the new Website is
 running.


Close Internet Explorer.


Switch to the **Microsoft Azure
PowerShell** console window.



####Task 4:	Remove the resource group by using Windows PowerShell


1.  To remove your new resource
 group, type the following command in the console, and then press
 Enter:


Remove-AzureResourceGroup –Name rga20532



Type **Y** to indicate that you
 want to remove the Website, and then press Enter.



>  **Note:** Because removing a resource group
 involves removing multiple resources, this process can take 5 to 15
 minutes on average.



Close the **Microsoft Azure
PowerShell** console window.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used Azure to
 interact with the Resource Manager, resource groups, and resource group
templates.





©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this 
document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this
 document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any 
intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use
 this document for your internal, reference purposes. 



This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in
this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may 
change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are 
for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is 
intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here.
