#Module 1: Overview of the Microsoft Azure Platform

#Lab: Exploring the Azure Preview Portal

###Scenario

The new Preview Portal is released and you are designated by your team as the individual who will explore the new portal and then train the other team members on how to use the portal. You decided to customize a few features of the new portal and create a new service instance.

###Objectives

After you complete this lab, you will be able to:

Sign in to the Preview Portal.

Customize your Startboard.

Identify a blade.

Identify a journey.

Identify a journey part.

Close a journey without persisting your changes.

###Lab Setup

Estimated Time: 15 minutes

For this lab, you will use the available host machine. Before you begin this lab, you must complete the following step:
Verify that you received the credentials to sign in to the Azure portal from you training provider. You will use these credentials and the Azure account throughout the labs in this course.

##Exercise 1: Signing in to the Preview Portal

###Scenario

You will start by signing in to the Preview Portal by using the new portal URL.
The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Sign in to the Preview Portal.

####Task 1: Sign in to the Preview Portal

1.	Sign in to the Preview Portal <https://portal.azure.com>.
2.	Click Get Started.
Results: After completing this exercise, you will have signed in to the Preview Portal directly without having to go through the Management Portal first.

##Exercise 2: Customizing the Preview Portal

###Scenario

You want to practice customizing the Startboard based on the needs of your team. You also want to walk through a journey
The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:

1. Customize the Startboard.
2. View a blade.
3. Begin a journey.

####Task 1: Customize the Startboard

1.	View the Customization mode of the Startboard.
Resize the Service health tile to the Normal size.
2. Close the Customization mode of the Startboard.

####Task 2: View a blade

1.	Open the Browse panel, and then click Portal settings.
2. View the Portal Settings blade.

####Task 3: Begin a journey

1.	Open the New panel, and then click Everything.
2. In the Marketplace blade, select the Web group, and then select the Create option for Node JS Starter Site to begin a new journey.
3. In the Website journey, view the journey part for creating a new Web Hosting Plan.
4. Close the Website blade to view the warning message that notifies you about losing the changes you made in the journey or a journey part.

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have viewed blades, journeys, and journey parts.


©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.  
This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.  
