#Module 9: Designing a Communication Strategy by Using Queues and Service Bus 


#Lab: Using Queues and Service Bus to Manage Communication Between Web Applications in Azure



###
Scenario



Now that you can generate sign-in sheets in worker roles, you need a
scalable and consistent way to enqueue messages for the worker role. You
have decided to use an Azure queue mechanism so that you can scale the
worker roles in isolation to meet the demand of the queue size. In this 
lab, you will begin by implementing the communication between the 
Administration web application and the worker role by using Storage
 queues. Then you will replace that implementation with an implementation
 that uses Service Bus queues.

Currently, your on-premises Contoso Events application uses a WCF 
service to list the hotels that are near a location. You would like to
continue to use the WCF service, but you cannot modify your company’s
 firewall. You also would not like to expose the true network location of
the WCF service. You have decided to use Service Bus relays so that you
have a common endpoint that you can provide to client applications. You
 will start by using that endpoint in your Contoso Events web
 application.



###Objectives



After you complete this lab, you will be able to:



Create a Service Bus namespace by using the Management Portal.



Create Storage queue messages.



Consume Azure Storage queue messages.



Create Service Bus queue messages.



Consume Service Bus queue messages.



Modify the XML configuration of a WCF service to use the Service Bus
relay bindings.



Modify the C\# configuration of a WCF client to use the Service Bus
relay bindings.



###Lab Setup



Estimated Time: 90 minutes



Before starting this lab, you must complete the lab in Module 2. 
For the
lab in this module, you will use the available host machine. Also, you
must complete the following steps:


1.  On the host computer, click **Start**, type **Remote**, and then
    click **Remote Desktop Connection**.


In Remote Desktop Connection, provide the name of your virtual machine
in the **Computer** box by using the following format:



**vm20532[*Your Name Here*].cloudapp.net:[*Your VM RDP Port*]**



>  **Note:** The name and port for your virtual
 machine might be saved in the Computer drop-down list. If this is the
 case, use this value instead of typing it in manually. If you are
 unsure about your virtual machine’s RDP port, use either of the Azure
 portals to find your virtual machine’s endpoints. The endpoint with
 the name **Remote Desktop** is the correct port for RDP. This port is
 randomized to protect your virtual machine from unauthorized access.



In Remote Desktop Connection, click **Connect**. 
Wait until the RDP
client accesses the virtual machine.

If necessary, sign in by using the following credentials:


>  User name: **Student**

>
  Password: **AzurePa\$\$w0rd**



Verify that you received the credentials to sign in to the Azure portal 
from your training provider. 
You will use these credentials and the
Azure account throughout the labs in this course.



##Exercise 1:	Creating an Azure Service Bus Namespace



###Scenario



In this exercise, you will:



Create a Service Bus namespace by using the Management Portal.



The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:



1.	Create the Service Bus namespace by using the Management Portal.



####Task 1:	Create the Service Bus namespace by using the Management Portal



>  **Note:** Service Bus functionality is not
 available yet in the new Preview Portal. Because of this, the existing
 Management Portal will be used for this lab.** 

**

1.  Sign in to the Azure Management Portal
    ([*https://manage.windowsazure.com*](https://manage.windowsazure.com)).



View the list of **Service Bus** namespaces for your subscription.


Create a new **Service Bus** namespace by using the following values:



> Namespace Name: **sb20532[Your Name]**

>
> Region: **Select the region that is closest to you**

>
> Type: **Messaging**

>
> Messaging Tier: **Standard**



Note down the connection string for your newly created Service Bus
namespace.


Create a new **queue** in your namespace by using the following details:



>  **Queue** **Name**: signin

>
  **Namespace**: sb20532[Your Name]



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have created a
Service Bus namespace by using the Management Portal.



##Exercise 2:	Using Azure Queue Storage for Document Generation



###Scenario



In this exercise you will:



Create queue messages by using Storage queues.



Consume queue messages from Storage queues.



The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:



1.  Update worker role to consume requests from the queue.


Update administration application to add requests to the queue.


Generate the test data.


Debug and verify the application.



####Task 1:	Update worker role to consume requests from the queue

1.  Open the **Contoso.Events** solution from the following location:


>  File location: **Allfiles
> (F):\\Mod09\\Labfiles\\Starter\\Queues\\Contoso.Events**



Open the **TableStorageQueueHelper.cs** file.


In the **TableStorageQueueHelper** constructor, get the queue client and
the name of the queue by using the following code:

CloudStorageAccount storageAccount = base.StorageAccount;

\_queueClient = storageAccount.CreateCloudQueueClient();

\_signInQueueName =
CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("SignInQueueName");



Remove the existing code from the **Receive** method.

Create a new **CloudQueue** instance, and then ensure that the instance
exists by using the following code:

CloudQueue queue = \_queueClient.GetQueueReference(\_signInQueueName);

queue.CreateIfNotExists();



Get the *CloudQueueMessage* variable by calling the **GetMessage**
method of the **CloudQueue** class, and then pass the message variable
into the constructor of the **TableStorageQueueMessage** class, as shown
 in the following code:

CloudQueueMessage message = queue.GetMessage();

return new TableStorageQueueMessage(message);

In the **CompleteMessage** method, create a new **CloudQueue** instance 
and ensure that the instance exists by using the following code:

CloudQueue queue = \_queueClient.GetQueueReference(\_signInQueueName);

queue.CreateIfNotExists();



Call the **DeleteMessage** method of the **CloudQueue** class with the
*CloudQueueMessage* variable as the first parameter, as shown in the 
following code:

queue.DeleteMessage(message);



####Task 2:	Update administration application to add requests to the queue



1.  Open the **SignInSheetViewModel.cs** file.



In the **GenerateSignInSheetTableStorage** method, create a
**CloudStorageAccount** instance and a **CloudQueueClient** instance
 with the **Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString** setting 
value by using the following code:

CloudStorageAccount storageAccount =
CloudStorageAccount.Parse(tableStorageConnectionString);

CloudQueueClient queueClient = storageAccount.CreateCloudQueueClient();



Using the **SignQueueName** cloud setting value, create a new
**CloudQueue** instance and ensure that the instance exists, as shown in
the following code:

CloudQueue queue = queueClient.GetQueueReference(signInQueueName);

queue.CreateIfNotExists();



Add the message to the queue by creating a new instance of the
**CloudQueueMessage** class using the string **message** as the
 constructor parameter, and then adding the new instance with the
**CloudQueue AddMessage** method, as shown in the following code:

CloudQueueMessage queueMessage = new
CloudQueueMessage(message);queue.AddMessage(queueMessage);



####Task 3:	Generate the test data

1.  Start the **Windows Azure Storage Emulator – v3.4**.



Debug the **Contoso.Events.Data.Generation** project to generate the SQL
 and Storage tables data.



####Task 4:	Debug and verify the application

1.  Configure the solution for multiple startup projects with the following options:



>  **Contoso.Events.Cloud**: Start

>
  **Contoso.Events.Management**: Start without debugging

Debug the solution.



>  **Note:** You would have configured the solution
 to debug the **Contoso.Events.Cloud** project and to simply run the
 **Contoso.Events.Management** project. This will ensure that both web
 applications are running and won’t cause a conflict with the
 debugger.** **


>
  **Note:** Throughout this course we will use the
 **Azure Compute Emulator** to test and debug our Cloud Services. The
 emulator provides a fast and local option for testing your Cloud
 Services before deploying them to the Azure platform. Occasionally you
 may seem an odd error with the emulator such as an incorrect port
 number or a page not displaying. If this ever occurs, you can simply
 **Shutdown** the compute emulator and Visual Studio will **Start** the
 emulator the next time you try to debug your project.** 

**

Open **Contoso Events (Contoso.Events.Cloud)** website, and then open
the **Contoso.Events.Administration** website by using IIS Express.


Switch to the **Contoso.Events – Microsoft Visual Studio** window.


Open the **WorkerRole.cs** file.


Add a breakpoint to the following line:

HandleMessage(message);


Switch to the **Home - Contoso.Events.Administration** window.


In the **Administration** web application, select any event, generate a
sign-in sheet, and then download the sign-in sheet.

Verify that the application pauses execution at the debug breakpoint.


Stop debugging in Visual Studio, and then close Internet Explorer.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have created and 
consumed messages from Storage queues.



##Exercise 3:	Using Service Bus Queues for Document Generation



###Scenario



In this exercise, you will:



Create queue messages by using Service Bus queues.


Consume queue messages from Service Bus queues.



The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:



1.  Update worker role to consume requests from the queue.


Update administration application to add requests to the queue.


Debug and verify the application.



####Task 1:	Update worker role to consume requests from the queue

1.  Update the **ServiceConfiguration.Local.cscfg** file in the
 **Contoso.Events.Cloud** project to use the connection string for
    your **Service Bus** namespace as the setting value for the
 **Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString** setting:



>  Name: **Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString**

>
  Value: **[Your Service Bus Connection String]**



Open the **ServiceBusQueueHelper.cs** file.


In the **ServiceBusQueueHelper** constructor, get the queue client by
using the following code:

string serviceBusConnectionString =
CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString");

string signInQueueName =
CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("SignInQueueName");

\_client =
QueueClient.CreateFromConnectionString(serviceBusConnectionString,
signInQueueName);



Remove the existing code from the **Receive** method.


Invoke the **Receive** method of the **QueueClient** class, store the 
result in a **BrokeredMessage**, and then pass the new variable into the
**ServiceBusQueueMessage** constructor, as shown in the following code:

BrokeredMessage message = \_client.Receive();

return new ServiceBusQueueMessage(message);



In the **CompleteMessage** method, invoke the **Complete** method of the
**BrokeredMessage** parameter by using the following code:

message.Complete();



In the **AbandonMessage** method, invoke the **Abandon** method of the
**BrokeredMessage** parameter by using the following code:

message.Abandon();



Open the **WorkerRole.cs** file.

Locate and replace the line of code to create the
**TableStorageQueueHelper** instance:

var queueHelper = new TableStorageQueueHelper();

with a line creating a new instance of the **ServiceBusQueueHelper**
class:

var queueHelper = new ServiceBusQueueHelper();



####Task 2:	Update administration application to add requests to the queue

1.  Update the **Web.config** file in the **Contoso.Events.Management**
 project to use the connection string for your **Service Bus**
 namespace as the setting value for the
 **Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString** app setting:



> Key: **Microsoft.ServiceBus.ConnectionString**

>
> Value: **[Your Service Bus Connection String]**



Open the **SignInSheetViewModel.cs** file.


In the constructor, locate the following line of code:

GenerateSignInSheetTableStorage(context, eventItem, messageString);



Replace the above line of code with the following line of code:

GenerateSignInSheetServiceBus(context, eventItem, message);



In the **GenerateSignInSheetServiceBus** method, create a
**QueueClient** instance with the
**Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString** setting value and
the **SignInQueueName** setting value by using the following code:

QueueClient client =
QueueClient.CreateFromConnectionString(serviceBusConnectionString,
signInQueueName);



Add the message to the queue by creating a new instance of the
**BrokeredMessage** class by using the **QueueMessage** message as the
constructor parameter and adding the new instance with the **QueueClient
Send** method, by using the following code:

BrokeredMessage queueMessage = new
BrokeredMessage(message);client.Send(queueMessage);



####Task 3:	Debug and verify the application



1.  Debug the solution.



Open **Contoso Events (Contoso.Events.Cloud)** website, and then open
the **Contoso.Events.Administration** website by using IIS Express.



Switch to the **Home - Contoso.Events.Administration** window.



In the **Administration** web application, select any event, generate a
sign-in sheet, and then download the sign-in sheet.



Verify that the application pauses execution at the debug breakpoint.



Stop debugging in Visual Studio 2013, and then close Internet Explorer.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have created and
consumed messages from Service Bus Queues.



##Exercise 4:	Using Service Bus Relay to Connect a WCF Service and Client[s]



###Scenario



In this exercise, you will:



Manage the XML configuration for a WCF service.


Modify an existing WCF service to use Service Bus relay bindings.


Manage the C\# configuration for a WCF service.


Update a WCF client to use a Service Bus relay binding

.
Consume a WCF service by using Service Bus relay endpoints.


The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:



1.  Test the existing WCF service by using a console application.


Modify the WCF service endpoints to use Service Bus relay.


Test the relayed WCF service by using a console application.


Update the cloud web application to connect to the relayed WCF service.


Debug the cloud web application.



####Task 1:	Test the existing WCF service by using a console application

1.  Open the **Contoso.Events** solution from the following location:



>  File location: **Allfiles (F):\\Mod09\\
> Labfiles\\Starter\\Relay\\Contoso.Events**



Open the **Contoso.Events.Lodging.Client** solution from the following
location:



>  File location: **Allfiles (F):\\Mod09\\
> Labfiles\\Starter\\Relay\\Contoso.Events.Lodging.Client**



Switch to the **Contoso.Events – Microsoft Visual Studio** window.


Debug the **Contoso.Events.Lodging** project in the **Contoso.Events**
solution.


Switch to the **Contoso.Events.Lodging.Client – Microsoft Visual
Studio** window.


Debug the **Contoso.Events.Lodging.Client** solution.


View the list of hotels in the Console application.


Stop debugging both solutions.



####Task 2:	Modify the WCF service endpoints to use Service Bus relay



1.  Switch to the **Contoso.Events –** **Microsoft Visual Studio**
 window.



Open the **App.config** file in the **Contoso.Events.Lodging** project.


Update the service endpoint to use **netTcpRelayBinding** instead of
**netTcpBinding**.


Update the service endpoint to use an address in the following format:



>  sb://[*namespace*].servicebus.windows.net/lodging

>
  Replace the **[*namespace*]** tag with the name of your namespace.



Update the **ServiceBusRelayBehavior** behavior element with the
following code:

\<behavior name="ServiceBusRelayBehavior"\>

\<transportClientEndpointBehavior\>

\<tokenProvider\>

\<sharedAccessSignature keyName="[keyName]" issuerSecret="[key]" /\>
\</tokenProvider\>

\</transportClientEndpointBehavior\>

\</behavior\>



Locate the **keyName** attribute in the **sharedAccessSignature**
element, and then replace its value with the **SharedAccessKeyName**
value from your previously recorded Service Bus connection string.



Locate the **key** attribute in the **sharedAccessSignature** element,
and then replace its value with the **SharedAccessKey** value from your
 previously recorded Service Bus connection string.



>  **Note:** For example your connection string may
> be: Endpoint=sb://contoso.servicebus.windows.net/;\
> SharedAccessKeyName=RootManageSharedAccessKey;\
> SharedAccessKey=ABC123/J3y+tk-Your **keyName** value would be
> “*RootManageSharedAccessKey*” and your **key** value would be
> “*ABC123/J3y+tk=”*.** 

**

Debug the solution.



####Task 3:	Test the relayed WCF service by using a console application

1.  Switch to the **Contoso.Events.Lodging.Client –** **Microsoft**
 **Visual Studio** window.



Open the **Program.cs** file in the **Contoso.Events.Lodging.Client**
project.


Locate the **GetHotels** method.


Replace the line that creates the Uri:

Uri serviceUri = new Uri("net.tcp://localhost:8000/lodging", UriKind.Absolute);

with a line that uses the **CreateServiceUri** helper method, as shown
in the following code:

Uri serviceUri = ServiceBusEnvironment.CreateServiceUri("sb",
"[namespace]", "lodging");



Update the **[namespace]** value with the name of your Service Bus
 namespace.


Update the **NetTcpBinding** with its relay equivalent
**(NetTcpRelayBinding)**.


After the creation of the **ChannelFactory\<ILodgingService\>**
instance, create an endpoint behavior with the Shared Secret Token 
provider by using the following code:

TransportClientEndpointBehavior endpointBehavior = new
TransportClientEndpointBehavior();

endpointBehavior.TokenProvider = TokenProvider.CreateSharedAccessSignatureTokenProvider("[keyName]",
"[key]");

cf.Endpoint.EndpointBehaviors.Add(endpointBehavior);



Replace the [**keyName]** value with the **SharedAccessKeyName** value 
from your previously recorded Service Bus connection string.



Replace the [**key]** value with the **SharedAccessKey** value from your
 previously recorded Service Bus connection string.



Debug the solution.



####Task 4:	Update the cloud web application to connect to the relayed WCF service



1.  Copy the **GetHotels** method from the **Program.cs** file.


Switch to the **Contoso.Events – Microsoft Visual Studio** window, and 
then stop debugging.


Open the **HotelsViewModel.cs** file in the
**Contoso.Events.ViewModels** project.


Replace the **GetHotels** method that returned an empty Enumerable with
your copied method, as shown in the following code:

private static IEnumerable\<Hotel\> GetHotels()

{

return Enumerable.Empty\<Hotel\>();}



####Task 5:	Debug the cloud web application

1.  Configure Visual Studio 2013 to use multiple startup projects with
 the following configuration:



>  Contoso.Events.Cloud: **Start without debugging**

>  Consoto.Events.Lodging: **Start without debugging**

>
  Contoso.Events.Management: **None**

Open the **Windows** 

**Azure Storage Emulator – v3.4**



Debug the **Contoso.Events.Data.Generation** project to generate the SQL
and Azure Storage tables data.


Close Microsoft Visual Studio 2013.


Re-launch Microsoft Visual Studio 2013 as an administrator.


Open the **Contoso.Events** solution:



>  File location: **Allfiles (F):\\Mod09\\
> Labfiles\\Starter\\Relay\\Contoso.Events**



Start the **Contoso.Events** solution.



>  **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have connected
existing WCF applications to clients by using Service Bus relay.



©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this
 document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this 
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any 
intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use 
this document for your internal, reference purposes. 



This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in
 this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may 
change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are 
for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is 
intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here.