#Module 2: Establishing a Development Environment using Azure Virtual Machines

#Lab: Creating an Azure Virtual Machine for Development and Testing

###Exercise 1:	Creating a Network and Resource Container

####Task 1:	Sign in to the Preview Portal

1. On the Start screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.

2. Go to https://portal.azure.com

3. Enter the email address of your Microsoft account. Click **Continue**.

4. Enter the password for your Microsoft account.

5. Click **Sign In**.

####Task 2:	Create a virtual network and a resource group

1.  In the navigation pane on the left side of the Preview Portal, scroll down, and then click **Browse**.

2. In the **Browse** blade that displays, click **Virtual networks**.

3. In the **Virtual networks** blade that displays, view your list of virtual network instances.

4. At the upper-left corner of the screen, click **New**.

5. In the **New** blade that displays, click **Compute** and then click **Azure Marketplace**.

6. In the **Marketplace** blade that displays, click **Compute**.

7. In the **Compute** blade that displays, scroll down, and then select **Virtual Network**.

8. In the **Virtual Network** blade that displays, click **Create**.

9. In the **Virtual network** blade, perform the following steps:

10. In the **Name** dialog box, provide the value **Dev20532**.

11. In the **Location** list, select the region that is closest to your current location.

12. In the Virtual network blade, click Address Space.

13. In the **Address space** blade, perform the following steps:

  a. Ensure that the **Address space CIDR block** box has the value **10.0.0.0/16**.

  b. Ensure that the **Subnet CIDR block** box has the value **10.0.0.0/24**.

  c. In the **Subnet name** dialog box, provide the value **Apps**.

  d. Click **OK**.

14. In the Virtual network blade, click Resource Group.

15. In the Resource group blade, click Create a new resource group.

16. In the **Create resource group** blade, perform the following steps:

  a. In the **Name** dialog box, provide the value **Dev20532**.

  b. Click **OK**.

17. In the **Virtual network** blade, click **Create**.

> **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have a new virtual network and resource group in Azure

###Exercise 2:	Creating a Development Virtual Machine

####Task 1:	Create a storage account

1.  In the navigation pane on the left side of the Preview Portal, scroll down, and click **Browse**.

2. In the **Browse** blade that displays, click **Storage**.

3. In the **Storage** blade that
displays, view your list of Storage instances.

4. At the upper-left corner of the screen, click **New**.

5. In the **New** blade that displays, click **Data + Storage** and then click **Azure Marketplace**.

6. In the Marketplace blade that displays, click **Data + Storage**.

7. In the **Data + Storage** blade that displays, locate the **Storage and Cache** section and click **Storage**.

8. In the **Storage** blade that displays, click **Create**.

9. In the **Storage account** blade that displays, perform the following steps:

  a. In the **Storage** dialog box, provide the value **stor20532[Your Name Here]**.

  b. Click Location.

  c. In the **Location** blade, select the region closest to your current location.

  d. Click Pricing Tier.

  e. In the **Recommended Pricing Tiers** blade, select the **Locally Redundant Storage** option for local redundancy.
  
  > You may have to expand all options to see this pricing tier.

  f. Click **Select**.

  g. Click **Create**.

####Task 2:	Create a virtual machine

1. In the navigation pane on  the left side of the Preview Portal, scroll down, and click **Browse**.

2. In the **Browse** blade that displays, click **Virtual machines**.

3. In the **Virtual machines** blade that displays, view your list of Virtual Machine instances.

4. At the upper-left corner of the screen, click **New**.

5. In the **New** blade that displays, click **Compute** and then click **Windows Server 2012 R2 Datacenter**.

6. In the **Create VM** blade that displays, perform the following steps:

  a. In the **Host Name** dialog box, provide a value with the prefix **vm20532** followed by your name.

  b. In the **User Name** dialog box, provide the value **Student**.

  c. In the **Password** dialog box, provide the value **AzurePa\$\$w0rd**.

  d. Click **Pricing Tier**.

  e. In the **Recommend Pricing Tiers** blade, click **Browse All Pricing Tiers**.

  f. Select the **A3 Standard** option.

  g. Click **Select**.

  h. In the **Recommended Pricing Tiers** blade, click **Select**.

  i. Click **Optional Configuration**.

  j. In the **Optional Config** blade, click **Network**.

  k. In the **Network** blade, click **Virtual Network**.

  l. In the **Virtual Network** blade, select the previously created network, **Dev20532**.

  m. In the **Network** blade, click **OK**.

  n. In the **Optional Config** blade, click **Storage Account**.

  o. In the **Storage account** blade, select the previously created Storage account, **stor20532[Your Name Here]**.

  p. In the **Optional Config** blade, click **OK**.

7. In the **Create VM** blade, select the **Resource Group** option.

8. In the **Resource group** blade that displays, locate the **Use an existing resource group** list, and then select the **Dev20532** resource group.

9. In the **Create VM** blade, click **Create** to create the virtual machine by using your specified configuration.

> **Note:** The creation of a new virtual machine can take anywhere between 10 to 15 minutes. You will see a notification on the Startboard (home screen) when your virtual machine is created and running.

10. Select the newly created virtual machine from your Startboard.

11. In the **vm20532[Your Name Here]** blade, scroll down to the **Disks** tile.

12. Click the **Disks** tile.

13. In the **Disks** blade, click **Attach New**.

14. In the **Attach a new disk** blade, perform the following steps:

  a. Click **Storage Container**.

  b. In the **Choose a container** blade, click **Choose Storage Account**.

  c. In the **Storage account** blade, select the previously created storage account, **stor20532[Your Name Here]**

  d. In the **Choose a container** blade, click **Choose Container**.

  e. In the **Storage container** blade, select the **vhds** container.

  f. In the **Choose a container** blade, click **OK**.

  g. In the **Disk** **File Name** dialog box, provide the value, **vm20532-AllFiles.vhd**.

  h. In the **Size (GB)** dialog box, provide the value, **6**.

  i. To create the second disk, click **OK**.

  > **Note:** Wait about five minutes for the empty disk to be attached to the virtual machine.

15. Return to the **vm20532[Your Name Here]** blade.

16. Click **Connect** at the top of the screen.

17. In the **Internet Explorer download** dialog box, click **Open**.

18. In the **Remote Desktop Connection** dialog box, perform the following steps:

  a. Click **Don’t ask me again for connections to this computer** to prevent this dialog box from displaying again.

  b. Click **Connect**.

19. In the **Windows Security** dialog box, perform the following steps:

  a. For the **User name** dialog box, provide the value, **Student**.

  b. For the **Password** dialog box, provide the value, **AzurePa\$\$w0rd**.

  c. Click **OK**.

10. In the **Remote Desktop Connection** dialog box, perform the following steps:

  a. Verify if the Remote certificate name matches the name of your virtual machine.

  b. Click **Don’t ask me again for connections to this computer** to prevent this dialog box from displaying again.

  c. Click **Yes**.

11. When you are prompted to allow your network connection to discover external devices, click **Yes**.

> **Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have a new virtual machine stored in a new storage account.

###Exercise 3: Configuring the Virtual Machine for Development

####Task 1: Create an AllFiles drive

1.  On the Start screen, click the **Server Manager** tile.

2. In the navigation pane on the left side, click **Local Server**.

3. In the **Properties** box, click the **IE Enhanced Security Configuration** option that is currently set to **On**.

4. In the **Internet Explorer Enhanced Security Configuration** dialog box, perform the following steps:

  a.  Under Administrators, select **Off**.

  b. Under Users, select **Off**.

  c. Click **OK**.

5. Press the Windows logo key+W to open **Universal Search** **– Settings**.

6. In the **Search** dialog box, provide the value **disk**.

7. Click **Create and format hard disk partitions**.

8. In the **Initialize Disk** dialog box, perform the following steps:

  a. Verify that **Disk 2** is selected for initialization.

  b. Verify that **MBR (Master Boot Record)** is the selected partition style.

  c. Click **OK**.

9. In the lower-half of the Disk Management window, perform the following steps:

  a. Scroll down and find **Disk 2** that was previously initialized.

  b. Right-click the unallocated partition, and then click **New Simple Volume**.

10. In the **New Simple Volume** wizard, perform the following steps:

  a. Click **Next**.

  b. Verify that the **Simple volume size in MB** is **6141**.

  c. Click **Next**.

  d. In the **Assign the following drive letter** list, click **F**.

  e. Click **Next**.

  f. Verify that the **File System** setting is set to **NTFS**.

  g. In the **Volume Label** dialog box, provide the value **AllFiles**.

  h. Click **Next**.

  i. Click **Finish** to close the dialog box, and then create the partition.

  > **Note:** If a dialog box displays stating that “You need to format the disk in drive F: before you can use it.”, you can safely close it because you already formatted the disk.

11. On the Start screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.

12. If you are prompted to set up Internet Explorer 11, perform the following steps:

  a. Select **Use recommended security and compatibility settings**.

  b. Click **OK**.

13. Go to (https://github.com/MicrosoftLearning/20532-DevelopingMicrosoftAzureSolutions/releases/latest).

14. Scroll down the screen until you find the **allfiles** download link.

15. Click the link to download the AllFiles compressed folder.

16. In the **Internet Explorer** download dialog box, click **Save**.

> The download of the AllFiles executable typically takes around five minutes.

17. Click the **Windows File Explorer** icon in your Taskbar.

18. On the left navigation bar, expand the **This PC** node and click the **Downloads** node:

19. Right-click the **allfiles** compressed folder and select the **Properties** option.

20. In the **allfiles Properties** dialog box, do the following:

  a. Ensure that the **Unblock** checkbox is selected.

  b. Click **OK**.

21. Right-click the **allfiles** compressed folder and select the **Extract all** option.

22. In the **Extract Compressed (Zipped) Folders** dialog box, do the following:

  a. In the **Files will be extracted to this folder:** dialog, provide the value **F:\\**.

  b. Ensure that the **Show extracted files when complete** checkbox is not selected.

  c. Click **Extract**.

23. Wait for the extraction process to complete.

####Task 2:	Install Visual Studio 2015 Community Edition

1. On the Start screen, click **Internet Explorer**.

2. In the Address bar, type **http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=524433**.

3. Press Enter.

4. Click **Download**.

5. Select **vs\_ultimate.exe**.

6. Click **Next**.

> **Note:** Notice that Internet Explorer blocks the download dialog box. To view this dialog box, in the yellow warning message at the bottom of the Internet Explorer window, click **Options for this Site**, and then click **Always Allow**. In the download dialog box that is at the bottom of the Internet Explorer window, click **Run**.

7. In the initial **Visual Studio** dialog box, select **I agree to the License Terms and Privacy Policy**.

8. Click **Next**.

9. In the **Optional features to install** list, ensure that only the following options are selected:

  - Microsoft Office Developer Tools

  - Microsoft SQL Server Data Tools

  - Microsoft Web Developer Tools

10. Click **Install**.

> **Note:** It typically takes around 30 to 45 minutes for the required assets to download and for the installation to complete.

11. Wait for the **Visual Studio 2015 Community Edition** installation to finalize.

12. In the **Visual Studio Ultimate 2015** dialog box, click **Launch**.

13. In the **Visual Studio Sign In** dialog box, click **Not now, maybe later**.

14. In the **Visual Studio Settings** dialog box, perform the following steps:

  a. In the **Development Settings** list, click **Visual C\#**.

  b. Click **Start Visual Studio**.

  c. Wait for the **Visual Studio** configuration to complete.

  d. Close the Visual Studio 2015 Ultimate window by clicking the close (**x**) button at the top-right corner of the window.

####Task 3:	Install Azure SDK for .NET 2.6

1. On the Start screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.

2. In the Address bar, type **http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=518003**.

3. Press Enter.

4. Expand the **Details** section by clicking the plus button immediately to the left of the **Details** header.

5. Scroll down, and then click **VS 2015**.

6. In the download dialog box at the bottom of the Internet Explorer window, click **Run**.

> **Note:** It might take a minute or two for the Web Platform Installer 5.0 software to be installed. This software will retrieve the Azure SDK for .NET 2.6.

7. Verify that the package is named **Microsoft** **Azure SDK for .NET (VS 2015) – 2.6**.

8. Click **Install**.

9. Click **I Accept**.

> The download and installation of the SDK takes about five minutes.

10. Wait for the **Web Platform Installer** process to complete.

11. Click **Continue** to view the .NET Dev Center | Azure.

12. Close **Internet Explorer**.

13. In the Web Platform Installer 5.0 window, click **Finish**.

14. Click **Exit**.

15. On the Start screen, click the down arrow to see all the applications, and then right-click the **Visual Studio 2015** tile.

16. Click **Pin to Start** at the bottom of the screen.

17. Click the **Visual Studio 2015** tile.

18. On the **View** menu, click **Server Explorer**.

19. Locate the **Azure** node, and then click the arrow that is on the left side of the node.

20. Right-click the **Azure** node, and then click **Connect to Microsoft Azure Subscription**.

21. If necessary, sign in to your Azure subscription by using your Microsoft account credentials.

####Task 4:	Install Azure PowerShell Module

1. On the Start screen, click the **Internet Explorer** tile.

2. In the Address bar, type [***http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=320376***] (http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/p/?linkid=320376&clcid=0x409), and then press Enter.

> **Note:** Notice that Internet Explorer blocks the download dialog box. To view this dialog box, in the yellow warning message at the bottom of the Internet Explorer window, click **Options for this Site**, and then click **Always Allow**.

3. In the download dialog box at the bottom of the Internet Explorer window, click **Run**.

4. Verify that the package is named **Microsoft** **Azure PowerShell with Microsoft Azure SDK**.

5. Click **Install**.

6. Click **I Accept**.

>  **Note:** The download and installation of the Module takes about five minutes.

7. Wait for the **Web Platform Installer** process to complete.

8. In the Web Platform Installer 5.0 window, click **Finish**.

9. Click **Exit**.

10. Close the **Internet Explorer** application.

> **Note:** You are now connected to your lab environment virtual
 machine.

> **Results**: After completing this exercise, your development virtual
 machine will have Visual Studio, Azure PowerShell, and the Azure SDK
installed.

©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode "Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License"), additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant.  This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.  
This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
