Module 7: Storing Tabular Data in Azure

Lab: Storing Event Registration Data in Azure Storage Tables

### Exercise 1: Populating the Sign-In Form with Registrant Names

####   Task 1: Create an instance of the CloudTable class {#task-1-create-an-instance-of-the-cloudtable-class .ProcedureHeading}

<span id="List_91" class="anchor"></span>On the Start screen, click the
**Desktop** tile.

<span id="List_90" class="anchor"></span>On the taskbar, click the
**File Explorer** icon.

<span id="List_89" class="anchor"></span>In the **Libraries** window, go
to **Allfiles (F):\\Mod07\\Labfiles\\Starter\\Tables\\Contoso.Events**,
and then double-click **Contoso.Events.sln.**

<span id="List_88" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Roles** solution folder.

<span id="List_87" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Worker** project.

<span id="List_86" class="anchor"></span>Double-click the
**TableStorageHelper.cs** file.

<span id="List_85" class="anchor"></span>In the **TableStorageHelper**
class, find the method with the following signature:

IEnumerable\<string\> GetRegistrantNames(string eventKey);

<span id="List_84" class="anchor"></span>Remove the following single
line of code in the class:

return Enumerable.Empty\<string\>();

<span id="List_83" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**GetRegistrantNames** method and before the closing parenthesis, create
a **CloudTable** instance:

<span id="List_82" class="anchor"></span>CloudTable table =
\_tableClient.GetTableReference("EventRegistrations");

####   Task 2: Retrieve strongly-typed registration records by partition key {#task-2-retrieve-strongly-typed-registration-records-by-partition-key .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_81" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
    **GetRegistrantsNames** method and before the closing parenthesis,
    store the **eventKey** in a **string** variable named
    **partitionKey**:

string partitionKey = eventKey;

<span id="List_80" class="anchor"></span>Create a **string** filter by
using the **TableQuery.GenerateFilterCondition**, as shown below:

string filter = TableQuery.GenerateFilterCondition("PartitionKey",
QueryComparisons.Equal, partitionKey);

<span id="List_79" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**GetRegistrantsNames** method and before the closing parenthesis,
create a new instance of the **TableQuery** class and use the fluent
**Where** method with your filter to generate a query:

TableQuery\<Registration\> query = new
TableQuery\<Registration\>().Where(filter);

<span id="List_78" class="anchor"></span>Pass the generated query into
the **ExecuteQuery** method of the table variable by using the
**Registration** model class as the generic parameter:

<span id="List_77" class="anchor"></span>IEnumerable\<Registration\>
registrations = table.ExecuteQuery\<Registration\>(query);

####   Task 3: Use LINQ-to-Objects to project a list of registrant names {#task-3-use-linq-to-objects-to-project-a-list-of-registrant-names .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_76" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
    **GetRegistrantsNames** method and before the closing parenthesis,
    add a statement without the closing semi-colon to store the
    registrations in a variable of the same type named **names**:

IEnumerable\<string\> names = registrations

<span id="List_75" class="anchor"></span>Append the lambda-syntax query
with a fluent method to order the result by **LastName**:

.OrderBy(r =\> r.LastName)

<span id="List_74" class="anchor"></span>Append the query further with a
fluent method to order the result by **FirstName**:

.ThenBy(r =\> r.FirstName)

<span id="List_73" class="anchor"></span>Finalize the query with a
projection method that uses the **String.Format** static method to
format the string with **LastName**, followed by a command, then a
space, and then the **FirstName**:

.Select(r =\> String.Format("{1}, {0}", r.FirstName, r.LastName));

<span id="List_72" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**GetRegistrantsNames** method and before the closing parenthesis, add
the following statement:

<span id="List_71" class="anchor"></span> return names;

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have queried
entities by row key or partition key from Table storage.

### Exercise 2: Updating the Events Website to use Storage Tables

####   Task 1: Update the register controller action to store the registration record {#task-1-update-the-register-controller-action-to-store-the-registration-record .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_68" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, expand the **Roles** solution folder.

<span id="List_67" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Web** project.

<span id="List_66" class="anchor"></span>In the **Contoso.Events.Web**
project, expand the **Controllers** folder.

<span id="List_65" class="anchor"></span>Double-click the
**RegisterController.cs** file.

<span id="List_64" class="anchor"></span>In the **RegisterController**
class, find the method with the following signature:

Guid StoreRegistration(dynamic registration)

<span id="List_63" class="anchor"></span>Remove the single line of code
in the class:

return Guid.Empty;

<span id="List_62" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**StoreRegistration** method and before the closing parenthesis, get the
connection string by using the **CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting**
static method and the
**Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString** value as the
parameter:

string connectionString =
CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString");

<span id="List_61" class="anchor"></span>Use the
**CloudStorageAccount.Parse** static method with the connection string
as the parameter to get the storage account:

var storageAccount =
Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.CloudStorageAccount.Parse(connectionString);

<span id="List_60" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**StoreRegistration** method and before the closing parenthesis, create
a *CloudTableClient* variable by using the **CreateCloudTableClient**
method of the storage account:

var tableClient = storageAccount.CreateCloudTableClient();

<span id="List_59" class="anchor"></span>By using the
**GetTableReference** method of the *CloudTableClient* variable and
**“EventRegistrations”** as the parameter, create a *CloudTable*
variable:

var table = tableClient.GetTableReference("EventRegistrations");

<span id="List_58" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**StoreRegistration** method and before the closing parenthesis, create
a new **TableOperation** by using the **TableOperation.Insert** static
method and the dynamic registration as the parameter:

var operation = TableOperation.Insert(registration);

<span id="List_57" class="anchor"></span>By using the *CloudTable*
variable, invoke the **Execute** method by passing the
**TableOperation** as the parameter:

table.Execute(operation);

<span id="List_56" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**StoreRegistration** method and before the closing parenthesis, parse
the **registration.RowKey** string as a **System.Guid** by using the
**Guid.Parse** static method :

Guid rowKey = Guid.Parse(registration.RowKey);

<span id="List_55" class="anchor"></span>Return the *rowKey* variable as
the result of the **StoreRegistration** method.

<span id="List_54" class="anchor"></span>return rowKey;

####   Task 2: Update the register ViewModel to retrieve the dynamic stub registration from the table {#task-2-update-the-register-viewmodel-to-retrieve-the-dynamic-stub-registration-from-the-table .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_53" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, expand the **Shared** solution folder.

<span id="List_52" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.ViewModels** project.

<span id="List_51" class="anchor"></span>Double-click the
**RegisterViewModel.cs** file.

<span id="List_50" class="anchor"></span>In the **RegisterViewModel**
class, locate the method with the following signature:

RegisterViewModel(string eventKey)

<span id="List_49" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**RegisterViewModel** constructor and before the closing parenthesis,
get the connection string using the
**CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting** static method and the
**Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString** value as the
parameter:

string connectionString =
CloudConfigurationManager.GetSetting("Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.ConnectionString");

<span id="List_48" class="anchor"></span>Use the
**CloudStorageAccount.Parse** static method with the connection string
as the parameter to get the storage account:

var storageAccount =
Microsoft.WindowsAzure.Storage.CloudStorageAccount.Parse(connectionString);

<span id="List_47" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**RegisterViewModel** constructor and before the closing parenthesis,
create a *CloudTableClient* variable by using the
**CreateCloudTableClient** method of the storage account:

var tableClient = storageAccount.CreateCloudTableClient();

<span id="List_46" class="anchor"></span>Create a *CloudTable* variable
by using the **GetTableReference** method of the *CloudTableClient*
variable and **“EventRegistrations”** as the parameter:

var table = tableClient.GetTableReference("EventRegistrations");

<span id="List_45" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**RegisterViewModel** constructor and before the closing parenthesis,
store the **eventKey** in a *string* variable named **partitionKey**:

string partitionKey = String.Format("Stub\_{0}", this.Event.EventKey);

<span id="List_44" class="anchor"></span>Create a **string** filter by
using the **TableQuery.GenerateFilterCondition**

string filter = TableQuery.GenerateFilterCondition("PartitionKey",
QueryComparisons.Equal, partitionKey);

<span id="List_43" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**RegisterViewModel** constructor and before the closing parenthesis,
create a new instance of the **TableQuery** class and generate a query
by using the fluent **Where** method with your filter :

TableQuery query = new TableQuery().Where(filter);

<span id="List_42" class="anchor"></span>Pass the generated query into
the **ExecuteQuery** method of the table variable:

IEnumerable\<DynamicTableEntity\> tableEntities =
table.ExecuteQuery(query);

<span id="List_41" class="anchor"></span>At the end of the
**RegisterViewModel** constructor and before the closing parenthesis,
select the single element in the enumerable of **DynamicTableEntity**
objects:

DynamicTableEntity tableEntity = tableEntities.SingleOrDefault();

<span id="List_40" class="anchor"></span>Set the **RegistrationStub**
property to the *DyanmicTableEntity* variable:

<span id="List_39" class="anchor"></span>this.RegistrationStub =
DynamicEntity.GenerateDynamicItem(tableEntity);

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used the
Azure Storage SDK to retrieve and create entities.

### Exercise 3: Verifying that the Events Website is Using Azure Storage Tables for Registrations

####   Task 1: Run the data generation console project to populate the Azure storage table with data {#task-1-run-the-data-generation-console-project-to-populate-the-azure-storage-table-with-data .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_36" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, expand the **Shared** solution folder.

<span id="List_35" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.Data.Generation** project.

<span id="List_34" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Data.Generation** project, point
to **Debug**, and then click **Start New Instance**.

####   Task 2: Use Server Explorer in Visual Studio 2013 to view table storage registrations {#task-2-use-server-explorer-in-visual-studio-2013-to-view-table-storage-registrations .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_33" class="anchor"></span>On the **View** menu, click
    **Server Explorer**.

<span id="List_32" class="anchor"></span>Locate the **Azure** node and
click the arrow at the left side.

<span id="List_31" class="anchor"></span>Expand the **Storage** node
under the **Azure** node.

<span id="List_30" class="anchor"></span>If prompted for your account
credentials, sign in by using your **Microsoft Account**.

<span id="List_29" class="anchor"></span>Expand the **Development**
account node under the **Storage** node.

<span id="List_28" class="anchor"></span>Expand the **Tables** node
under the **Development** account node.

<span id="List_27" class="anchor"></span>Double-click the
**EventRegistrations** table.

<span id="List_26" class="anchor"></span>In the **EventRegistrations
[Table]** tab, scroll through the entities.

<span id="List_25" class="anchor"></span>Drill-down into the properties
of a single entity by double-clicking on a row.

<span id="List_24" class="anchor"></span>Exit out of the **Edit Entity**
dialog box by clicking the **Cancel** button.

<span id="List_23" class="anchor"></span>Close the
**EventRegistrations** **[Table**] tab in Visual Studio.

####   Task 3: Debug the cloud web project to register for the event {#task-3-debug-the-cloud-web-project-to-register-for-the-event .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_22" class="anchor"></span>In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Cloud** project,
    and then click **Set As Startup Project**.

<span id="List_21" class="anchor"></span>On the **Debug** menu, click
**Start Debugging**.

<span id="List_20" class="anchor"></span>If the **Storage Emulator** is
already running, you will be prompted to shut down the emulator and
restart it by using a different mode. Click **OK**.

<span id="List_19" class="anchor"></span>On the home page of the web
application, verify that it displays a list of events.

<span id="List_18" class="anchor"></span>Click any of the events in the
list.

<span id="List_17" class="anchor"></span>On the event web page, click
**Register Now**.

<span id="List_16" class="anchor"></span>Fill out all of the fields in
the registration form and click **Submit**.

<span id="List_15" class="anchor"></span>Close the tab displaying the
website.

####   Task 4: Use Server Explorer in Visual Studio 2013 to view the new table storage registration {#task-4-use-server-explorer-in-visual-studio-2013-to-view-the-new-table-storage-registration .ProcedureHeading}

1.  <span id="List_14" class="anchor"></span>Switch to the
    **Contoso.Events –** **Microsoft Visual Studio** window.

<span id="List_13" class="anchor"></span>On the **View** menu, click
**Server Explorer**.

<span id="List_12" class="anchor"></span>Locate the **Azure** node.

<span id="List_11" class="anchor"></span>Double-click
**EventRegistrations** within the hierarchy of the **Azure** node.

<span id="List_10" class="anchor"></span>In the **EventRegistrations
[Table]** tab, scroll through the entities.

<span id="List_9" class="anchor"></span>In the yellow prompt asking if
you would like to download the remaining entities, click **click here**.

<span id="List_8" class="anchor"></span>Drill-down into the properties
of a single entity by double-clicking on a row.

<span id="List_7" class="anchor"></span>Click **Timestamp** header twice
to sort entities in a descending order by their Timestamp.

<span id="List_6" class="anchor"></span>Locate your new entity at the
top of the table.

<span id="List_5" class="anchor"></span>Switch to the **Contoso.Events –
Microsoft Visual Studio** window.

<span id="List_4" class="anchor"></span>Close **Contoso.Events –
Microsoft Visual Studio**.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used Visual
Studio and the Azure emulators to create a comprehensive development
environment for Azure Storage.

**\
**

©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this
document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use
this document for your internal, reference purposes. 

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in
this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may
change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are
for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is
intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here. 
