Module 8: Storing and Consuming Files from Azure Storage

Lab: Storing Generated Documents in Azure Storage Blobs

### Exercise 1: Implementing Azure Storage Blobs

####   Task 1: Sign in to the Azure Preview Portal {#task-1-sign-in-to-the-azure-preview-portal .ProcedureHeading}

On the Start screen, click the
**Internet Explorer** tile.

Go to
<https://portal.azure.com>

Type the email address of your
Microsoft account.

Click **Continue**.

Type the password for your
Microsoft account.

Click **Sign In**.

####   Task 2: Create a container by using the Management Portal {#task-2-create-a-container-by-using-the-management-portal .ProcedureHeading}

1.  In the navigation pane on
    the left side of the screen, scroll down, and then click **Browse**.

In the **Browse** blade that
displays, click **Storage**.

In the **Storage** blade that
displays, view the list of Storage instances.

In the list of Storage
instances, locate the storage account with the prefix **stor20532**.

Click the name of the storage
account to go to its dashboard.

In the **stor20532*[Your Name
Here*]** blade that displays, click the **Containers** tile.

In the **Containers** blade
that displays, view the list of your containers.

At the top of the blade, click
**Add**.

In the **Add a container**
blade that displays, perform the following steps:

In the **Name** box, type
**example**.

In the **Access Type** list,
select **Container**.

Click **OK** to create your
container.

####   Task 3: Add and access blob files in your container {#task-3-add-and-access-blob-files-in-your-container .ProcedureHeading}

1.  On the Start screen, click
    the **Visual Studio 2013** tile.

On the **View** menu, click
**Server Explorer**.

Locate the **Azure** node, and
then click the arrow that is on the left side of the node.

Expand the **Storage** node
under the **Azure** node.

>  **Note:** If you have not previously indicated
> that you want Visual Studio to remember your credentials, you will be
> prompted to enter your Microsoft account username and password to
> continue.

Expand the **stor20532*[Your
Name]*** account node under the **Storage** node.

Expand the **Blobs** node
under your storage account’s node.

Double-click **example**.

In the example [Container]
tab, click Upload Blob.

>  **Note:** The icon on the upload button includes
> an arrow that is pointing upward to a horizontal line.

In the **Upload New File**
dialog box, perform the following steps:

a.  Click the **Browse**
    button.

Go to the
**(F):\\Mod08\\LabFiles\\Starter\\** directory.

Click the **samplefile** text
document.

Click **Open**.

Click **OK**.

Switch to the Internet
Explorer window.

In a new tab, type the
following URL by replacing **[*storage account*]** with the name of your
storage account:

http://[*storage account*].blob.core.windows.net/example/samplefile.txt

Verify that the text **This is
your sample file!** displays in the browser.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have created a
blob container by using the Management Portal and viewed the blobs in
the container.

### Exercise 2: Populating the Container with Files and Media

####   Task 1: Open the blob helper in the cloud service worker project {#task-1-open-the-blob-helper-in-the-cloud-service-worker-project .ProcedureHeading}

1.  On the Start screen, click
    the **Desktop**.

On the taskbar, click **File
Explorer**.

In the Libraries window, go to
**Allfiles (F):\\Mod08\\Labfiles\\Starter\\Contoso.Events**, and then
double-click **Contoso.Events.sln**.

In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Roles** solution folder.

In the Solution Explorer pane,
expand the Contoso.Events.Worker project.

Double-click the
**BlobStorageHelper.cs** file.

####   Task 2: Add Word documents to the container after they are created {#task-2-add-word-documents-to-the-container-after-they-are-created .ProcedureHeading}

1.  In the
    **BlobStorageHelper** class, find the method with the following
    signature:

public Uri CreateBlob(MemoryStream stream, string eventKey)

Remove the following single
line of code in the class:

return null;

At the end of the
**CreateBlob** method and before the closing parenthesis, create a new
**CloudBlobContainer** for the **signin** container.

CloudBlobContainer container =
\_blobClient.GetContainerReference("signin");

Call the **CreateIfNotExists**
method of the *CloudBlobContainer* variable to ensure that the container
exists**:**

container.CreateIfNotExists();

At the end of the
**CreateBlob** method and before the closing parenthesis, create a new
variable named *blobName*:

string blobName;

Use the **String.Format**
static method to create a string, and then assign the string to the
*blobName* variable:

blobName = String.Format("{0}\_SignIn\_{1:ddmmyyyss}.docx", eventKey,
DateTime.UtcNow);

At the end of the
**CreateBlob** method and before the closing parenthesis, create a block
blob reference by using the **GetBlockBlobReference** method and the
*blobName* variable as the parameter:

ICloudBlob blob = container.GetBlockBlobReference(blobName);

Use the **Seek** method of the
*MemoryStream* variable to set the position of the stream to the
beginning and offset the position by the value of **0**:

stream.Seek(0, SeekOrigin.Begin);

Use the **UploadFromStream**
method of the **ICloudBlob** interface to upload the stream to the
referenced blob:

blob.UploadFromStream(stream);

At the end of the
**CreateBlob** method and before the closing parenthesis, add the
following statement:

return blob.Uri;

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have used the
Azure Storage SDK to manage blobs and containers in your storage
account.

### Exercise 3: Retrieving Files and Media from the Container

####   Task 1: Download documents from blob storage and stream to the client {#task-1-download-documents-from-blob-storage-and-stream-to-the-client .ProcedureHeading}

1.  In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, expand the **Shared** solution folder.

In the Solution Explorer pane,
expand the Contoso.Events.ViewModels project.

Double-click the
**DownloadViewModel.cs** file.

In the **DownloadViewModel**
class, find the method with the following signature:

public async Task\<DownloadPayload\> GetStream()

Remove the following single
line of code in the class:

return await Task.FromResult\<DownloadPayload\>(null);

At the end of the **GetStream**
method and before the closing parenthesis, create a new
**CloudBlobClient** variable for the *\_storageAccount* variable:

CloudBlobClient blobClient = \_storageAccount.CreateCloudBlobClient();

Create a new
**CloudBlobContainer** instance for the **signin** container by using
the *CloudBlobClient* variable:

CloudBlobContainer container =
blobClient.GetContainerReference("signin");

Call the **CreateIfNotExists**
method of the *CloudBlobContainer* variable to ensure that the container
exists:

container.CreateIfNotExists();

At the end of the **GetStream**
method and before the closing parenthesis, create a block blob reference
by using the **GetBlockBlobReference** method and the *\_blobId*
variable as the parameter:

ICloudBlob blob = container.GetBlockBlobReference(\_blobId);

Use the **OpenReadAsync**
method of the *ICloudBlob* variable to create a **Stream** and store it
in a variable:

Stream blobStream = await blob.OpenReadAsync();

At the end of the **GetStream**
method and before the closing parenthesis, create a new instance of the
**DownloadPayload** class:

DownloadPayload payload = new DownloadPayload();

Assign the **Stream** variable
to the **DownloadPayload** variable’s **Stream** property:

payload.Stream = blobStream;

Assign the *ICloudBlob*
variable’s **Properties.ContentType** value to the *DownloadPayload*
variable’s **ContentType** property:

payload.ContentType = blob.Properties.ContentType;

Return the *DownloadPayload*
variable:

return payload;

####   Task 2: Generate the Test Data {#task-2-generate-the-test-data .ProcedureHeading}

1.  On the Start screen, type
    **Azure Storage Emulator**.

Click the **Windows Azure
Storage Emulator – v3.4** tile.

Switch to **Contoso.Events –
Microsoft Visual Studio** window.

In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events.Data.Generation** project, point
to **Debug**, and then click **Start New Instance**.

####   Task 3: Download generated sign-in sheets from the blob storage {#task-3-download-generated-sign-in-sheets-from-the-blob-storage .ProcedureHeading}

1.  In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, right-click the **Contoso.Events** solution, and
    then click **Properties**.

In the **Solution**
‘**Contoso.Events’** **Property Pages** dialog box, perform the
following steps:

a.  Make sure that
    **CommonProperties** =\> **Startup Project** is selected in the
    navigation menu on the left.

Select **Multiple startup
projects**.

For **Contoso.Events.Cloud**,
set the **Action** to **Start**.

For
**Contoso.Events.Management**, set the **Action** to **Start without
debugging**.

Ensure that all the remaining
projects have their **Action** set to **None**.

Click **OK** to close the
dialog box.

On the **Debug** menu, click
**Start Debugging**.

In the Windows **notification
area**, click the arrow to see the running applications.

Locate **IIS Express*,*** and
right-click the icon.

Point to
**Contoso.Events.Management** under the **View Sites** header, and then
click the URL under the **Browse Applications** header.

Point to
**Contoso.Events.Cloud** under the **View Sites** header, and then click
the URL under the **Browse Applications** header.

On the home page for the
**Administration** web application, click the button to view the list of
events.

Click the **Sign-In Sheet**
button for any event in the list.

View the sign-in page that
notifies you that a sign-in sheet is being generated.

Wait for one to two minutes,
and then refresh the sign-in sheet page.

Click **Sign-In Sheet** to
download the sign-in sheet from the server.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have downloaded
blobs from your storage account by using the Azure Storage SDK.

### Exercise 4: Specifying Permissions for the Container

####   Task 1: Modify Container Access using Server Explorer {#task-1-modify-container-access-using-server-explorer .ProcedureHeading}

1.  On the desktop, click the
    Contoso.Events - Visual Studio 2013 window.

On the **Debug** menu, click
**Stop Debugging**.

On the **View** menu, click
**Server Explorer**.

Locate the **Azure** node, and
then click the arrow that is on the left side of the node.

Expand the **Storage** node
under the **Azure** node.

Expand the **Development**
account node under the **Storage** node.

Expand the **Blobs** node under
**Development** account node.

Right-click the **signin**
container, and then click **Properties**.

In the **Properties** pane,
locate **Public Read Access**.

Ensure that the value of the
**Public Read Access** property is set to **Off**.

####   Task 2: Generate temporary SAS tokens by using the SDK {#task-2-generate-temporary-sas-tokens-by-using-the-sdk .ProcedureHeading}

1.  In the **Solution
    Explorer** pane, expand the **Shared** solution folder.

In the **Solution Explorer**
pane, expand the **Contoso.Events.ViewModels** project.

Double-click the
**DownloadViewModel.cs** file.

In the **DownloadViewModel**
class, find the method with the following signature:

public async Task\<string\> GetSecureUrl()

Remove the single line of code
in the class:

return await Task.FromResult\<string\>(String.Empty);

At the end of the
**GetSecureUrl** method and before the closing parenthesis, create a new
**CloudBlobClient** for the *\_storageAccount* variable.

CloudBlobClient blobClient = \_storageAccount.CreateCloudBlobClient();

Create a new
**CloudBlobContainer** for the **signin** container by using the
*CloudBlobClient* variable.

CloudBlobContainer container =
blobClient.GetContainerReference("signin");

Call the **CreateIfNotExists**
method of the *CloudBlobContainer* variable to ensure that the container
exists**:**

container.CreateIfNotExists();

At the end of the
**GetSecureUrl** method and before the closing parenthesis, create a new
instance of the **SharedAccessBlobPolicy** class:

SharedAccessBlobPolicy blobPolicy = new SharedAccessBlobPolicy();

Set the
*SharedAccessBlobPolicy* variable’s **SharedAccessExpiryTime** property
to 15 minutes from the current time:

blobPolicy.SharedAccessExpiryTime = DateTime.Now.AddHours(0.25d);

Set the
*SharedAccessBlobPolicy* variable’s **Permissions** property to
**SharedAccessBlobPermissions.Read**:

blobPolicy.Permissions = SharedAccessBlobPermissions.Read;

At the end of the
**GetSecureUrl** method and before the closing parenthesis, create a new
instance of the **BlobContainerPermissions** class:

BlobContainerPermissions blobPermissions = new
BlobContainerPermissions();

Add the newly created
**SharedAccessBlobPolicy** to the *BlobContainerPermissions* variable’s
**SharedAccessPolicy** with the key **“ReadBlobPolicy”**:

blobPermissions.SharedAccessPolicies.Add("ReadBlobPolicy", blobPolicy);

Set the
*BlobContainerPermissions* variable’s **PublicAccess** property to
**BlobContainerPublicAccessType.Off**:

blobPermissions.PublicAccess = BlobContainerPublicAccessType.Off;

At the end of the
**GetSecureUrl** method and before the closing parenthesis, call the
asynchronous **SetPermissionsAsync** method of the *CloudBlobContainer*
variable by using the *BlobContainerPermissions* variable as the
parameter:

await container.SetPermissionsAsync(blobPermissions);

Invoke the
**GetSharedAccessSignature** method of the *CloudBlobContainer* variable
by using a new instance of the **SharedAccessBlobPolicy** class as the
first parameter and the **“ReadBlobPolicy”** key as the second
parameter:

string sasToken = container.GetSharedAccessSignature(new
SharedAccessBlobPolicy(), "ReadBlobPolicy");

At the end of the
**GetSecureUrl** method and before the closing parenthesis, create a
block blob reference by using the **GetBlockBlobReference** method and
the *\_blobId* variable as the parameter:

ICloudBlob blob = container.GetBlockBlobReference(\_blobId);

Take the **Uri** property of
the *ICloudBlob* variable and store it in a new *Uri* variable.

Uri blobUrl = blob.Uri;

At the end of the
**GetSecureUrl** method and before the closing parenthesis, concatenate
the **AbsoluteUri** of the *Uri* variable and the *sasToken* variable:

string secureUrl = blobUrl.AbsoluteUri + sasToken;

Return the string variable as
the result of the method:

return secureUrl;

####   Task 3: Download documents from a protected container by using the SAS token {#task-3-download-documents-from-a-protected-container-by-using-the-sas-token .ProcedureHeading}

1.  On the **Debug** menu,
    click **Start Debugging**.

In the notification area, click
the arrow to see the running applications.

Locate **IIS Express**, and
then right-click the icon.

Point to the
**Contoso.Events.Management** option under the **View Sites** header,
and then click the URL under the **Browse Applications** header.

On the home page for the
**Administration** web application, click the button to view the list of
events.

Click the **Sign-In Sheet**
button for any event in the list.

View the sign-in page which
notifies you that a sign-in sheet is being generated.

Wait for one or two minutes, and
then refresh the sign-in sheet page.

Click **Sign-In Sheet** to
download the sign-in sheet from the server by using the blob Url.

Close the **Internet Explorer**
application.

Close the **Contoso.Events -
Visual Studio** application.

Close the **Azure Storage
Emulator** command prompt (cmd.exe).

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have modified the
permissions of the containers and generated SAS tokens for the
containers.

**\
**

©2014 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.  The text in this
document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0
License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode),
additional terms may apply.  All other content contained in this
document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images,
etc.) are ***not*** included within the Creative Commons license grant. 
This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any
intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use
this document for your internal, reference purposes. 

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in
this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may
change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are
for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is
intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied,
with respect to the information provided here. 
